 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Marilyn Farwell on September 5, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Marilyn, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Farwell:  I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much. Let's just start with the basic question. Can 
you please tell us when and where you were born, where you grew 
up and something about your early life?  
Farwell:  Well, I was born and raised in the Midwest, mainly in Wisconsin. 
This is in the '40s and '50s.  
Raiskin:  What year were you born?  
Farwell:  Forty-one. 
Raiskin:  Forty-one, okay.  
Farwell:  It was small town USA for most of my growing up. I wasn't aware 
of anything really. I played sports, I became a fanatic baseball fan, I 
studied. My family was all into sports, so that became one of the 
sources of our connection, especially with my father. Then, believe 
it or not, there was one baseball game a week, which we waited 
and waited for, on TV. Anyway, we're talking mainly about the '50s 
when I entered high school and that was supposedly the dating 
scene. I did go steady with someone, but it was always at a 
distance. He broke up with me, and I happily went on with my life. 
Raiskin:  What kind of a high school was it that you went to?  
Farwell:  Very small. We were a large graduating class of thirty-two. My 
mother taught in the school. She was the physical education 
teacher, so it was very incestuous in a way.  
Raiskin:  Had you gone to elementary school with these same kids?   
Farwell:  No. No, we moved a lot in the '40s. It wasn't until I was in seventh 
grade that we settled in one city, in one place, and one set of 
friends. So it was a little chaotic in my early childhood.  
Raiskin:  What did your father do?  
Farwell:  Well, he was a salesman, but that was because when my mother 
and father graduated from college, La Crosse, in Wisconsin, there 
were no jobs. It was the Depression. They both started teaching, 
though, in the '50s. They were finally able to get jobs. Very late for 
both of them  since they graduated in the '30s. Let's see, where was 
I?  
Raiskin:  I was just trying to get a sense of what your high school was like. 
So it was very small?  
Farwell:  Very small, very small.  
Raiskin:  And you broke up with that first boyfriend?  
Farwell:  Yes, yes, and spent most of my time studying. That was my way to 
move myself out of the dating scene. I can look back now and see 
that that was what I was doing. Put on a lot of weight. That does it, 
too, to make oneself unavailable. Then came my last year, senior 
year, and I fell in love with one of my teachers. Not a teacher, 
homeroom teacher, young twenty-some-some year old, just out of 
college. She reciprocated, but it was one of those relationships that 
went only so far physically. In fact, for the next ten-fifteen  years, 
that's the nature of my relationships with various friends. I suppose  
today they'd call it romantic friendship with some cuddling but 
nothing sexual, and I didn't know what was happening to me.  
 Now remember, this is a school in which  my mother is teaching, 
and everybody knew that this was going on or whatever was going 
on. We just spent a lot of time together, and it was very exciting for 
me. I didn't know what had hit me. She wasn't the brightest apple 
on the tree, and I would teach her grammar so she could teach it 
the next day, but something very exciting about that. But like so 
many of those relationships, you just say goodbye at the end of the 
school year almost as if nothing happened. I think there was a 
series of painful separations, which you couldn't talk about.  
Raiskin:  Do you think she had a sense of what it was?  
Farwell:  She had been involved with a woman before, but she did get 
married, good Catholic that she was. It was just that interim for her. 
I think she thought she wasn't, but I was, kind of thing. So I went to 
a college. It was an all-women's college or had been. There was 
quite a tradition of women doing things together, running their 
own school government, athletics, things like that.  
Raiskin:  Did you choose it because it was a women's college?  
Farwell:  No, no. Friend of a friend kind of chose it for me. It was a small 
school. Again, a small school in Southern Illinois, MacMurray 
College, very good education. A lot of the teachers were older 
women who couldn't get  jobs elsewhere and there were  some fine, 
fine teachers there and I spent even more time studying. I never  
dated one male the entire time nor did I listen to [popular] music 
that entire time.  
 I started getting interested in classical music and actually one of the 
brightest spots that I remember from that experience— I did a lot of 
music. I sang in choirs, I sang solos. That was one of my passions 
but I actually heard Leontyne Price sing at our school. She had just 
made her Metropolitan debut and she had already been  scheduled 
to sing at our small college. She sang in the chapel and just kind of 
blew the whole chapel  [wide open]. I remember I still have the 
autograph. Very special. She's one of my most special opera 
singers. I followed her for a long time.  
 Anyway, I should say that music was a very important part of my 
bringing up. My father was exceptionally musical and his mother 
during the Depression made some of her money by playing for the 
movies ad lib. She'd watch the movie and play the organ. She was 
very well known as a musician and also had a beautiful singing 
voice, I gather. I knew her for only a short while. She died when I 
was about five while I was sleeping with her as a matter of fact. 
That was an odd, difficult time.  
 Anyway, music ran through that family and, as  a part of almost all 
schools, thank goodness at the time, you always picked up an 
instrument, you always sang in the choir and I was playing clarinet 
from fourth grade to high school in bands and things like that, 
always taking part in choruses and solo competitions, things like 
that, and I continued that in college. I was part of the choir. I guess  
music and athletics are two things that run through my life pretty 
consistently but, as for relationships with women in college, it was 
a series of romantic friendships, intense romantic friendships, and 
no men were on my radar. I graduated first in my class because I 
spent all my time studying and, again, there were those series of 
separations that one would go through when one didn't 
acknowledge the connection. When you graduated, you left the 
person that you basically were in love with and you didn't 
complain, you didn't say anything.  
Raiskin:  When you were a student, what were you studying?  
Farwell:  I started in chemistry. I went to English and then ended up in 
philosophy.  
Raiskin:  So in any of your studying, did you run across any literature or 
ideas about homosexuality— 
Farwell:  None.  
Raiskin:  —that gave you pause?  
Farwell:  None. The only thing I remember is that the history professor who 
taught us Renaissance history hinted that Michelangelo liked male 
bodies. That's the closest I ever got and I do know actually, I mean 
it was just  kind of  subconscious if I can use a non-technical term for 
that. There was one person who was kicked out of the school for 
her homosexual activity. I mean, nobody said the word. That was 
the last thing they said but it was very clear that she was involved  
with a freshman and so, of course, she had led them astray and she 
was kicked out.  
Raiskin:  So you knew the stakes?  
Farwell:  I knew the stakes, yes, and the stakes remained high through 
tenure, actually. When I went to graduate school, I started out in 
philosophy. That didn't work. I went back in English. That did 
work and, once again, I had a series of romantic friendships, one  of 
which allowed us to live together for four-five years and with a 
little bit of physical contact but clearly not any sexual contact and 
that was one of the hardest leave takings that I've had because after 
that, she went her way, I went mine.  
Raiskin:  Would you say there's anything similar about these women to each 
other or the kind of women that you would be interested in?  
Farwell:  No. No. I actually haven't thought about that. I don't know. No. 
That's an interesting question but I don't have an answer to that. 
Once I had finished my master's degree, I did spend two years in 
the same place but what I did was— this was in '68 and '69 I 
believe. I was in school the entire '60s so I was part of the— we 
went to protest Vietnam in Washington, D.C., protest at  the 
universities. I almost ran into the police when I was heading out on 
one adventure and quickly turned around and ran back the other 
way. The police were at the University of Oregon. That was part 
and parcel of what was happening— the University of Illinois, 
excuse me, because I went to graduate school at the University of  
Illinois. I think the same thing was happening at the University of 
Oregon. Now I do have to say where I was— Oh, I was in 
graduate— 
Raiskin:  You were saying— 
Farwell:  Oh, I took almost a sabbatical of two years and taught in a program 
for black students who were brought down from Chicago to get 
them ready for college work. Remember this is '68 is the occurrence 
of the riot in the Democratic Convention— 
Long:  In Chicago.  
Farwell:  In Chicago. And so the university responded by bringing a lot of 
unprepared but still capable students from the ghettos in Chicago 
down to the university and we had what was called a writing lab 
and we would have small groups of maybe eight, ten students who 
then would get that kind of attention that they needed. So I taught 
in an all-black program for two years. I would teach black 
literature. This was the first time I really had read it so it was a 
huge learning curve for me, but this person I cared for and lived 
with had been in the Peace Corps so I was bound and determined 
to do something similar and that was what I called my peace corps 
experience.  
 Then when I returned to graduate studies, I took my exams, did the 
dissertation and— 
Raiskin:  What did you  do your dissertation on?   
Farwell:  Contemporary theories of metaphysical poetry. I was always 
interested in the theoretical part of any—well, any  part of English 
literature. I did, of course, teach a lot of literary criticism, ultimately 
feminist theory, and I was very taken with the Renaissance and I 
was hired here to teach John Milton because I had one of the most 
extraordinary teachers in graduate school, A.E. Barker who set my 
world on fire theoretically, and what many of us learned after we 
got out of his classes is that we were in love with A.E. Barker and 
not Milton. It was at the time a very difficult job search situation, 
but I realized I wanted to be only in the East Coast and the West 
Coast, not in the Midwest. I think the Midwest became too insular 
and I certainly didn't want to go home to Wisconsin and the insular 
kind of communities I lived in, but I didn't know why.  
 I did get this job offer and it surprised me that I actually had to 
travel out here to take it. I was hoping just to stay where I was and 
thank you very much, another feather in my cap, but I did come 
out here and— 
Raiskin:  Did you know anything about Oregon?  
Farwell:  It rained. That's what I knew. My relatives gave me umbrellas, 
which I promptly lost and realized that Oregonians do not carry 
umbrellas but it took a while for that to happen. I came here— my 
mother and I traveled over the country from Wisconsin with a U-
Haul in the back of our car. My dad was in one of his serious 
depressions, so serious that he couldn't form a sentence. He was 
manic depressive. That will be important a little later. My mother  
and I traveled out here and I was plopped down in a little 
apartment next to the university, and there  I was, knowing no one.  
Long:  What year was that, Marilyn?  
Farwell:  Seventy-one, fall of ’71. The head of the department came to— he 
was the only person I really knew. He was very proud to have 
hired a class of six assistant professors, which included a black, an 
Arab and a broad. I was the latter.  
Long:  And who is that?  
Farwell:  No, I won't say. Someone can look it up. Anyway, it was here that I 
started being involved in feminism because that was what was 
happening. Joan Acker was at the top of her game and she had just 
filed I think a  grievance report about— 
Raiskin: Can you say who she was?  
Farwell:  Professor of Sociology. I call her the “Mother of us all.” Certainly at 
the U of O she was; she led the charge. And I got to know her 
within the first two years and so much was going on at the time 
with feminism, and lesbianism was one of the side issues and I was 
beginning to think that I had to examine my predilections a little 
more seriously. I actually considered joining a convent at the time 
and, of course, that was like many women  who joined convents. It 
was to be with women. But then I realized that I was actually 
sexually attracted to women and that was probably in my early  
thirties. I mean I could see that. You just didn't talk about it. It was 
a blank slate  in many ways.  
 And I  tell you, there's one book that made me sure and released me 
from all that pent up guilt. There was a lot of guilt around it. And 
that was Sappho is a Right-On Woman. I read that. I think I took it 
out in a paper bag from the bookstore and that just opened the 
whole thing for me and obviously there are people like me and that 
kind of opened the doors.  
 But while that was happening, I was supposed to be writing about 
John Milton. There's a real clash there. I was beginning to— I was 
certainly teaching John Milton but the more I taught him, the more 
I disliked him and what he stood for. I think my second year or 
third year I proposed a course on women writers, which was, “Are 
there enough women writers to populate a course?” Yes, there 
were. And for the first  time I read some of the classics like Pride and 
Prejudice, Jane Eyre. No, Jane Eyre  I did read. I remember reading it 
in graduate course on Victorian literature and I was offended that I 
had to write a paper on that because I thought this was a childish 
book. I taught it every year after that.  
 But I was famous for proposing courses and reading things at the 
last minute, but nobody got time off for a course on women and 
literature and I was proposing and drafting courses one after 
another. Like on Renaissance women, we had to go to the rare 
books room to get the material. Now you have compendiums and 
you can go and buy a number of anthologies, but nothing like that   
existed. It was a learning experience for all of us but, because it was 
such a learning experience, it was exciting. It was a very exciting 
time.  
 At the same time, I was involved in creating the Women's Studies 
Program and that was when Barbara Bateman was part of the 
original group. She resigned and I and another person became the 
co-chair  of that and here I was, an untenured professor, doing this 
kind of thing that I didn't realize how much that was not the way 
you do things. I was teaching courses on women writers. I was 
spending a lot of time devising the Women's Studies Program and I 
started writing not on Milton but on Virginia Woolf and Adrienne 
Rich when I finally did start putting things together because it was 
a very confusing time. Most of my life has been a confusing time I 
think until now.  
 But those things are not conducive to getting tenure, nor is being 
gay at that time conducive to getting tenure and I was gradually 
coming out to people and being involved with women so that it 
was obvious— I didn't think it was obvious but it was obvious to 
anybody who wanted to look twice that I was lesbian and I started 
doing a lot of research on androgyny, thinking that was a perfectly 
neutral topic  that would not make me complicit in any kind of 
sexual identity. It took a long time. I think I was rather naïve at the 
time to realize, oh my gosh,  they might actually think I'm gay 
because of this topic.   
 When I was up for tenure, I barely made it because they want a 
very clear direction of research and I was doing this and that, doing 
Woolf and Milton. I did have a nice article on Milton. I had some on 
Adrienne Rich and Virginia Woolf and more theoretical articles. I 
dared to challenge the idea of the persona in poetry and claim that 
it was anti-feminist at least as it had been defined by the New 
Critics.  
 So that's what I had when I went up for tenure, which means I was 
everywhere and nowhere and I can say that George Wickes was the 
person who probably got me tenure in the end. I mean he couldn't 
do anything about the committees or anything like that but— 
Raiskin:  What year was it you came up for tenure?  
Farwell:  Seventy-seven, I think.  
Raiskin:  So it was just after he had published the book on Natalie Barney?  
Farwell:  Yes, yes, and he had asked me to read it several times and I just felt 
embarrassed. Why would he have me read his book on Natalie 
Barney? But it was an education and it was very fun to read. That's 
for sure. But he wanted my opinion of what? But that was part of 
my thinking, nobody knew, nobody was aware.  
 I did get tenure, which meant that I could do any damn thing I 
wanted and so I went fully into feminist topics, research, teaching. 
Then I started devising course after course.   
Raiskin:  And were they all well accepted or did you get pushback on any of 
the courses?  
Farwell:  No. No, all I had to do was propose something on the 500 or 400  
level, which is the graduate senior level. No, no, they didn't know 
what to do with me, I think. They just left me alone. One of the 
courses I taught and these are all the disguised  courses, Women in 
Communities. I had a wonderful time teaching Christine de Pizan, 
Country of the Pointed Firs, things like that but I was very into— in 
1980, Adrienne Rich published this very famous/infamous article 
on lesbian continuum in which she talked about lesbian as not 
necessarily a sexual definition but as a term, even a metaphor, that 
described women's primary intensity with one another. That was 
not well accepted by the lesbian community, which didn't want to 
give up their term for anybody who happened to have a connection 
with another woman. But I took it as a point of a departure for 
research and tried to spin off that.  
 What I did then was give papers on lesbian topics at these various 
scholarly conferences, but I never wrote an article until later about 
this topic. I didn't want that announced in the English department 
newsletter, so I was still holding back.  
Raiskin:  Can I ask you a question about that? Were you fearful of 
repercussions or uncomfortable with just exposure? What kept 
you? Because now you have tenure. What kept you from—   
Farwell:  I grew up in the church, in the Anglican Church and it's very much 
like the Roman Catholic Church. Homosexuality is not accepted or 
it wasn't and  [I had]  a lot of guilt and shame. You don't lose that. 
You don't ever lose that. I've never been one to carry a banner. I did 
I suppose push the boundaries, push my own boundaries by 
teaching all these courses and doing the scholarly papers, which I  
then would put down on my vita. So the lesbian was all over the 
place on my vita. But somehow if I didn't have to stand up and 
announce it, I was okay.  
 It's a strange feeling that a lot of people these days don't 
understand, and one of the things I remember telling young people 
about my "romantic friendships," and they couldn't believe that it 
didn't become sexual. People have to understand that there were 
plenty of relationships that were like that. Certainly in the 
nineteenth  century, Lillian Faderman wrote this book called 
Romantic Friendships  and when we jump to conclusions about Emily 
Dickinson or Eleanor Roosevelt, I think we have to  be very cautious 
because this kind of platonic relationship could exist very intensely 
and maybe with some physical contact but not necessarily sexual.  
 I know a lot of— the Ladies of St. Llangollen, for instance, in the 
late eighteenth  century, well-known literary people or at least who 
had a lot of literary people come to them in Wales, probably didn't 
have a sexual relationship but maybe did. Who knows and to jump 
conclusively to that conclusion is not a good scholarly way of  
looking at this kind of relationship prior to the big movement that 
brought us all out.  
 That kind of thing lasts. Shame and guilt last a long time, a lifetime 
easily and I look at some of the young lesbians and both admire 
and am jealous of the way that they can be out at twelve, you 
know, fourteen  and know who they are. It took me more than 
thirty  years to even have an inkling of who I was and even then it 
was a very slow process. You asked did I ever come out? When I 
did come out to friends? Well, that was part of the process of 
coming out, and most of the people who I came out to said, "Yes, I 
know."  
Long: And meanwhile, you have all these students clamoring to be in 
your classes.  
Farwell:  I guess. I guess. It was rather heady. It took a long while to realize 
that I could actually  be attractive to somebody else and I, of course, 
never was to men or I made myself unattractive to men but that I 
could be attractive was a heady experience and I certainly didn't 
know that some people were but it was strange. It was very 
strange.  
Raiskin: And perhaps attractive as you are, as opposed to being attractive in 
a dress with makeup or something— 
Farwell:  Yes, exactly.  
Raiskin: That you were attractive in your own—  
Farwell:  My first— this is jumping back and forth, but my first experience 
with psychotherapy was in graduate school, actually. I told you my 
father had manic depression. I got the depression side and so I had 
a series of episodes of depression and the first one  I got with a very 
heterosexual-oriented therapist who suggested, when I said I did 
have attractions to women, that I go to a clinic and the other 
solution was that I wear a low-cut red dress. Somehow neither of 
those did I try or would have worked.  
 My priest about the same time, when I was so worried about these 
attractions to women, said, well, it was a like a disease or a wound 
that had healed and then in the next breath he said it was  like the 
color of my skin. Obviously he hadn't thought this through. I called 
him on that. I said, "Those are two very, very different images with 
different conclusions about who I am." But these were people 
trying to deal with it in the '60s and had no idea how to do it.  
 I also encountered, because I experienced my first really hard 
depression when I came here, another male therapist who tried to 
tell me that female monkeys go toward dolls and male monkeys 
don't. Therefore, heterosexuality is the norm.  
Raiskin: And motherhood.  
Farwell:  And motherhood, absolutely. I had no dreams of weddings or 
motherhood or any of those things that young girls supposedly talk 
about and dream about. I just buried my nose in a book and went 
on from there.   
Long:  What did your parents make of you?  
Farwell:  I was an outdoor girl. I did a lot of camping and hiking so they 
could pin my look on that description. I was an outdoor girl, and 
the feminism thing, that I was a women's libber and they did know 
that I was with women but my dad just said they were my pals. I 
don't think, if I had told them openly "I am a lesbian," that that 
would have computed. My mother and I actually— she lived much 
longer than my father and she was living with my partner and me 
at the time and she still was concerned that I would be left alone 
after she died.  
 We talked around the topic and she was there in our house. We 
were sleeping in the same bed but if you don't want to know 
something the mind is very good, just as my mind was very good, 
at cutting out the fact that I might be gay. So I think the mind is a 
very powerful organ and one of the things we can do is deny very 
well, very well.  It doesn't take much practice.  
Raiskin:  When you were on campus and it's the beginnings of—you were 
starting Women's Studies, maybe the Center for the Study of 
Women in Society?  
Farwell:  We started meeting with the person who would give us the money 
in the late '70s I believe and I was the only humanities person in 
this group of about four sociologists. We didn't get the money I 
think until 1982. Please check that.  
Long:  Something like that, yeah, after he died.   
Farwell:  Oh yeah— 
Long:  It was William Harris, after he died.  
Farwell:  Yeah, and they also held up the money because the executor was 
trying to get his share, too, but we did get it and we set up— Joan 
Acker again was the primary person. She got this thing going. I was 
a part of the council and the group and just like any political— and 
this wasn't supposed to be political but of course it was political, 
just as women's studies was— A lot of tension around how we're 
going to— what is our aim going to be, are we going to have 
anything in the community, are we going to be just a scholarly 
organization?  
 I once brought a bottle of Pepto-Bismol to one of the meetings. That 
was the only way I could get through. So if you ask was I involved 
in community activities? No. I had more than I could handle being 
involved in the politics of the university, the beginnings of 
Women's Studies and Center for the Study of Women in Society. I 
just didn't have the energy to do anything more.  
Raiskin:  From the time you got here until, if we're talking for about a 
decade, did you know about lesbian organizations in town or 
cultural places or the bar or any— 
Farwell:  Oh, I certainly knew about the bar and I figured that my early time 
coming out was my teenage years because I never had them.  
Raiskin:  So I was asking you about the bar and these were your teenage 
years?  
Farwell: Sure, yeah, these were my teenage years. I would go to the bar in 
Portland. It was, as I said, a very heady time. Who knew that there 
were women there that would dance with women? And then I 
would sometimes see a compatriot at the Riv Room. One of my 
colleagues was there, married but he used to like the Riv Room, 
and we all sort of knew but you know.  
Long:  Did you have a sense of the town and gown? I mean the Riv Room 
mainly was Eugene community lesbians— I think was the Riv 
Room.  
Farwell:  Yes. 
Long:  What was that like?  
Farwell:  Well, I was never much into dancing, partying, things like that. It 
was just, as I said, heady to go to these places where there were 
mainly women who were dancing with women and that in itself 
was what I went for.  
Raiskin:  Did you dance?  
Farwell:  Yes. Slow dances. I usually went with somebody. I didn't go there 
to find somebody. I'm not that kind of girl. But the same thing in 
Portland. I met some people in Portland who I became very close to 
and I would go up there. Of course, that was a way to be fully out  
far from my identity here. So the first person I was really involved 
with was from Portland.  
Raiskin:  What was that like to finally be involved with somebody?  
Farwell:  Well, it wasn't the best of choices for me but I just took  whoever 
was available at the time because I had by that time I imagined 
myself in a sexual relationship so it fulfilled that and it was a 
terrible relationship and within less than a year it was over. But I 
did go to a women's music festival once in the '80s. By that time, I 
was in a long-term relationship with someone and we had close 
friends, close couple friends, and we went down to Santa Barbara 
and went to the women's music festival there. That was very 
freeing, being on the land with only women without the 
controversies that you have today.  
 I even remember getting a fake tattoo, taking my shirt off and I was 
so angry that people could be cool, that men could be so much 
cooler. I don't mean hip. I mean bodily temperature by taking their 
shirts off because, of course, it was hot in Santa Barbara even in the 
hills and little things like that.  
Long: What year was that when you went to Santa Barbara?  
Farwell:  Some place in the '80s I think.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever go to Mother Kali's Bookstore?  
Farwell:  Did I ever go to Mother Kali's? That was one of the places where 
the community did meet and I did go to all of her incarnations of  
the Mother Kali's bookstore and went to meetings there and I 
mentioned that one of the most memorable was Audre Lorde 
coming and  a lot of lesbians were at that meeting— meeting, talk, 
discussion. Audre Lorde didn't give lectures. She just kind of 
talked.  
 Izzie was the kind of person who would tell you what you should 
read next. "Here, I have a book for you," she would say. For me,  
because my music interest had gradually expanded into a kind of 
fanaticism for opera, she would have a book on the death of an 
opera singer in Venice that I should really read, but I did then 
gradually have her order our books. She would also tell us what  to 
order, what we should read and not read. "You're going to read The 
Well of Loneliness? That's a terrible book," she would say. Of course, 
for historical purposes, we had to read The Well of Loneliness  but 
when she got on campus, it was so much easier to order books and 
that was I think a great help for her bookstore and it would get 
women into the bookstore, men too, a few men who took my 
classes.  
 So my connection with her is a long one and I went out to their 
farm at one point, but I was not integral to the community that 
surrounded her or the general Eugene community, but certainly 
those aspects of it were very much part of my life. But the 
university took most of my time and energy.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel isolated from your department, given your interests?   
Farwell:  Well, for a while, yes. I was the only one that did any feminist kind 
of studies and then gradually we got some scholars who were into 
feminism like Barbara Mossberg and then finally Mary Wood that 
those were reliefs to me and there were a few around campus, 
Barbara May, for instance, who  I could go to and talk about things. 
So, isolated? I don't feel I was isolated but then I'm not a joiner. I'm 
not a party person. I wasn't in the social circle of the English 
department. I was in lesbian social circles and I stayed in those and 
I was comfortable there.  
 So no, if they had a party, let's say a dinner party, I was never 
aware of it. I didn't partake so I suppose in that way I was isolated 
but it didn't bother me because I had my own social community.  
Raiskin:  Who was in your social community?  
Farwell:  Well, my partner at the time, Monza Naff  and then finally 
somebody in music came and she and her partner were  a very close 
couple. I had that kind of social connection. The lesbian couples 
that we met or single people that we would gradually have dinner 
with and share trips with and things like that, that satisfied all the 
social networking that I needed.  
Raiskin: What were your relationships like? Were they long term or shorter?  
Farwell:  Both. I had one long-term relationship, not period, but during my 
time at the university. Who  started out as a graduate student, not 
something I'd recommend, but we were with each other for about 
ten years. Before and after some short-term relationships which like  
many of us, would like to forget and then I've been with my current 
partner and have married her, for twenty-five years now.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet?  
Farwell:  Friends. In fact, a person from the university community, Anne 
Laskaya and I became friends and again that's the social network 
that I had with her and her partner. And  her partner, whom Anne 
thinks was psychic, was sure that Kay and I would make a good 
couple and Anne was very cautious about it but her partner,  who 
has since died, wanted us to get together.  
 So, the first time it didn't work. We were both involved in other 
things and didn't have time for such piddling things as 
relationships and six months  later tried again and that's about right 
now in fact, twenty-five years ago, in late August and September. It 
was Labor Day, yes. We got together and had our commitment 
ceremony that December like many lesbians do right away. A nun 
presided over this, a dear friend and then three years ago, my dear 
friend Julee,  presided over our official wedding. And that's almost 
three years ago to the day. Somebody called us and congratulated 
us a couple of weeks ago and we had no idea that it was our 
anniversary of that connection. 
Long:  That was 2015 when marriage became legal?  
Farwell:  Yeah, we did it as soon as we could.   
Raiskin:  What was it like to be able to get married legally and what was 
your wedding like?  
Farwell:  It was lovely. It was in our backyard. Again, I'm not a big group 
person so we had about thirty  people and it was a wonderful 
August day. Some people flew in from New York, which surprised 
us and it was pretty much the same set of vows that we had at the 
first commitment ceremony.  I just basically printed out what we 
did there and Julee  added a few wonderful comments and blessed 
us and all sorts of things like that. I still can't believe it. When you 
grow up with that— what I said was guilt and shame, the idea of 
just being able to live your life is all you want without any 
harassment. The idea of getting married was so far from my 
dreams that I never even considered it and, as I said, I still am a 
little in shock and awe about that.  
Raiskin:  Do you call her your wife?  
Farwell:  You know, I do and I swore I never would and I do because it's the 
only way that you confirm what the relationship is and that you are 
indeed married. So I have done this several times. Sometimes I say 
partner. Most of the time I say wife and I had one person at an 
opera— I sometimes go on these opera tours and I said, "My wife." 
"Pardon?" "My wife." "I'm sorry, I didn't"— could not compute. Sort 
of like my mother. I'm sure if my mother had been alive at the time 
it would not have computed either or she would have hid in back 
of the couch in her shame but she did remind me that my dad had  
two sisters that lived together their entire lives so it must have 
come from his side.  
Raiskin:  What's life like  for you since retirement? It's been how long since 
you've been retired?  
Farwell:  Almost twenty  years, the best time of my life. Oh, I've taken up two 
passions. Opera has always been a part of my passionate life since 
the end of the '60s. I met a guy who was into opera. As I said, I had 
seen Leontyne Price when she was a babe practically and he really 
pushed me over the edge and we went to Chicago to see operas 
and singers. This was at the University of Illinois so singers came to 
us and I really got the bug and throughout my teaching career, I 
didn't have the time or money to do much of that.  
 So I took off, not literally, I took off, I joined an online group from a 
school in England that had classes and a program called Opera 
Studies and I think I took ten years’ worth of classes. Wonderful 
materials, graduate level courses and after a while I thought I don't 
need to write papers any more, I'll just take it what they call read 
only. So  I've been studying and then, at the same time, I was asked 
to write reviews for The Register-Guard, music reviews. That was 
my all-time goal, to write opera reviews, be an opera critic.  
 I just finished almost twenty  years of being a music critic for The 
Register-Guard. Since they changed hands, I'm a little more reluctant 
to take part but twenty  years is enough for anything. That's one 
side, a lot of music. I traveled, London. I would burn up the  
highway between here and Portland and Seattle going to their 
operas. It did get a little old after about fifteen  years of doing that, 
so I'm staying home a little bit. I still go down to San Francisco and 
go to a lot of their music operas— 
Raiskin:  You used to go to Santa Fe?  
Farwell:  Oh, we were in Santa Fe a couple of years ago. Yes, I went to Santa 
Fe a lot. Wonderful place, wonderful place. My wife is an artist and 
so she had her outlet, I had mine in Santa Fe. In New York, I found 
this wonderful group that does opera tours. I've joined them a 
number of times usually in New  York but sometimes in St. Louis 
and Houston, so I've been all over the country mainly, and we've 
gone to London a couple of times and seen operas there.  
 I have in mind a book that is about early opera, trying to weave 
some of my own experiences as many memoir, non-memoir kinds 
of books are being written today, weaving in their own personal 
experience with another approach. Who knows if I'll ever— those 
who watch this may know that I probably never finished it but if I 
have time and if I can make myself sit in a dark corner typing— I 
have about twenty-five pages written already and I don't imagine 
anything more than a hundred. So who knows? It may happen. It 
may happen.  
Raiskin:  I forgot to ask you about your book on lesbian narratology.  
Farwell:  Yes, I did write that and that was a good twenty  years ago, yes. 
That was when I really came out to the department.   
Raiskin:  What was that book?  
Farwell:  Well, I had discovered narratology as a discipline a good number of 
years before that. It just fascinated me and it still does, although I 
certainly haven't kept up with any scholarly literature on this topic. 
And since so many theorists, again theory comes cropping up, 
wrote about on one side lesbian novels written by people like Jane 
Rule and on the other side, the more experimental novels that 
mixed up chronology to say the very least about what was 
happening and the high theorists were praising this kind of book 
and dissing this kind of book, and I thought of a way I thought I 
could try to bridge that gap through narratology.  
 Izzie read the first chapter and said no, it was too theoretical. Izzie 
wanted something in plain English and just to be accepted by the 
scholarly community, I did a little more than— I wouldn't do it 
now but more theoretical language than I did in that book, but it 
did give me the professorship that I said I wanted before I died.  
 I didn't want to die an associate professor so I got that. I remember 
being— You have to be interviewed by the Dean of the Liberal Arts 
School because their committee made a recommendation and she 
had to make a recommendation and, in talking to her, she could not 
say the word lesbian. She said “less-bian,” “less-bian,” and I didn't 
know if that was a different kind of dyke or I don't know if she'd 
never encountered the word but I did everything I could not to 
laugh because my promotion was depending on this— and it sailed  
through. It wouldn't have and my tenure many years before but I 
made it and I sit here not ready to die, but full professor.  
Raiskin:  And a fisher person.  
Farwell:  And a fisher. I took up fishing. I've always been that outdoor girl 
and I'd done various things, backpacking, hiking, canoeing and a 
friend got me into fishing and then I started thinking what is this 
fly fishing about? So I took courses, of course, always taking 
courses. That's my way into a topic and there is an art that you 
have to learn to fly  fishing and then I found a group called The 
Damselflies, a women's fly  fishing group that's here in Eugene and 
it's wonderful. I just took a trip with a bunch of them. We take trips 
in various places and four or five of us signed up to do this trip to 
the Williamson River. We did that. A couple of weeks ago. It has 
consumed my life. That's really why I think I'm not going to finish 
the book because I think there is a steelhead out there waiting for 
me. I caught one two weeks ago, brought it in myself from my own 
little boat and that's the thrill that I get.  
 They say the tug is the drug and it is. I have been expanding my fly 
fishing  and in October I'll be going to a spey clinic for steel heading. 
A spey clinic is a different way of casting your rod. It's a two-
handed rod and mainly used for steelhead and steelhead are 
wonderful to catch because they put up a big fight, you rarely get 
them on the fly, and I've already caught four on the fly. I'm up 
there in a pantheon and the last newsletter from The Damselflies 
called me “The Steelhead Whisperer,” which was very nice. I'm not.   
Raiskin:  Could you explain the joke about Damselflies?  
Farwell:  There's no joke. But I never thought in my feminist life that I would 
call myself a damsel and we do call each other damsels. Whatever 
it takes. There is such a thing as a damselfly.  
Raiskin:  That's what I meant.  
Farwell:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you have thoughts about aging as a lesbian?  
Farwell:  I don't want to be put into one of these retirement homes with a lot 
of heterosexuals. That's the main thing I think of but then I don't 
want to be put in a retirement home with a lot of lesbians either. So 
I guess I'm going to die very lonely and alone.  
Raiskin:  What are your hesitations about each of those scenarios?  
Farwell:  Well, I don't want to listen to a lot of men trying to take over any 
kind of group that's happening as they have ever since, throughout 
the university life that I've had. And, as you  might have imagined, 
I'm a little shy and I don't like a lot of people around. I don't want 
to have to walk out to any place to eat and say hello to twenty-five 
people whose names I've forgotten or don't want to remember. It's 
just my personality more than anything else, and we keep upping 
the grade of our home. We built a number of things, you must 
come to see this, in the last two years that I'm utterly astonished to 
have in our backyard, which means that we have given up the idea 
of moving period, and I expect, don't tell Kay this, I expect that I  
will go first and she will take care of me. Although she says, "If I'm 
ill, you will hire somebody to take care of me." We'll see about that.  
Raiskin:  What have you built in your backyard?  
Farwell:  A magnificent hot tub area secluded, not just sitting on the deck 
and we have a pool. Next to the pool, instead of a wire fence, we 
have put a beautiful wooden fence with another little garden patch 
and a stone wall there.  
Raiskin:  I thought you were building adaptive elderly things in the 
backyard but it doesn’t sound like  that.  
Farwell:  No, no, I will tumble down to the pool and get my exercise and 
somebody can ratchet me back up. So far so good. I haven't had any 
major illnesses but when you get to be seventy-seven, you expect 
something around the corner.  
Raiskin:  You've lived a very long, not long but very full life, at the 
university and just intellectually. Thinking about  the best ways to 
live, I'm wondering if you can imagine a young person watching 
this, if you have any advice for a young person about how to live 
well. You've been a teacher a long time.  
Farwell:  Yes, I've been a teacher but I've never given advice about how to 
live. My story isn't a story that the people who will be watching 
this will go through. What I want them to know is that it did 
happen, that there were times when it was such a scary experience 
to be gay that you were frightened for your livelihood,  sometimes  
your life. I never had to experience it. That mainly is a gay male 
problem but it happens to a lot of gay people period, and I'm 
hoping that people don't have to go through that again. This 
business of deciding who you are and what gender you are at 
twelve  or fourteen  or even sixteen  I think is ridiculous. Not 
deciding, if you're gay, if you have that predilection, then it's 
wonderful to make contact with people who are like you.  
 But one of the things I am not doing right now is a lot of political 
activity. Since I did enough for a lifetime at the university, I have 
excused myself and I go fishing whenever I can and go to the opera 
whenever I can.  
Raiskin:  That sounds great. Many more years. Thank you very much.  
Farwell:  Yes. 
Long:  Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  