
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
oral history interview with Enid Lefton  on August 2, 2018, taking 
place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio  in the 
Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The interviewers 
are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’  
Special Collections and University Archives, and professor Judith 
Raiskin  of the UO Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality 
Studies. Enid, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for 
this project, and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview?  
Lefton:  Yes, I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much. Why don't we just begin with some basic 
questions, why don't you tell us where you were born, where you 
grew up and something about your early background?  
Lefton:  Okay, well I was born, I  grew up in Cleveland, Ohio in a pretty 
average— I was born in 1950, so pretty average, I think, '50s, post-
war suburban childhood. I had two— a younger brother and an 
older brother. My parents owned a restaurant and delicatessen 
with my uncle. So, the whole family worked there and that was, 
our lives centered around the restaurant. It was definitely like a 
center for the community, a gathering place for the community. I 
guess you'd call that my first home, our house was our second 
home.  
Raiskin:  Did you work in the restaurant?  
Lefton:  I did work in the restaurant. I was, bussed tables when I was 
younger, worked the soda fountain making chocolate phosphates 
and things like that, and then I was a waitress for a long time, too. 
As soon as I could get out of there, I did, but all my cousins worked 
there, and my aunts and uncles and my parents. Yeah, that was our 
lives for— just the restaurant was our lives.  
Long:  Where abouts in Cleveland was it?  
Lefton:  University Heights, the eastern suburbs.  
Long:  Okay.   
Lefton: In the middle of Jewish neighborhoods and you know, the 
restaurant's still there actually, somebody else owns it, bought it 
like thirty  years ago, but it's still there, same menu— 
Raiskin:  Did you eat most of your meals there?  
Lefton:  Yeah or else, we'd eat there or when I was older, when we were 
older, my mother worked there and so she would bring home food.  
She'd call up and say, "What do you want for dinner?" I grew up 
eating a lot of steak and things like that, yes. I ate well, and lots of 
corned  beef sandwiches.  
 I was very shy growing up and when I was older, I didn't ever 
date. I didn't come out until I was twenty-four, but I did not— I 
knew there was something different about me. I was really 
involved in my temple youth group, that's where most of my social 
life was when I was in high school.  
Raiskin:  When you said you felt there was something different about you, 
what did that feel like? Or what did you— 
Lefton:  I just always felt like I didn't belong, you know, I always felt on the 
outside, like I say, I was very shy. Being involved in the youth 
group I had a really good group of friends and I kind of came out 
of my shell a little bit there, I was a song leader and things like that.  
Raiskin:  Were you interested in music in high school?  
Lefton:  Yeah, I played the guitar, and I was the song leader, like I say there. 
I wrote song parodies, I actually wrote a complete play about youth  
group called, Youth Group on The Roof, and it was this parody of 
Fiddler on the Roof. I was always doing things like that and putting 
on shows for the family when we'd have family gatherings. My 
parents were really into Broadway musicals, so they would take us 
to musicals that came to Cleveland, I remember seeing Oliver  and I 
don't remember what else, but you know. I just had the sense of, I 
really enjoyed all kinds of music.  
Raiskin:  When you say that you were ready to leave— 
Lefton:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Or couldn't wait to get out, what does that mean?  
Lefton:  Well I mean, I think it's probably not unusual for anybody when 
they're a teenager to want something different. I went off to 
Columbus at  Ohio State, which was a different experience, but once 
again I was still very shy and hung out with all my friends in the 
dorm, but you know never dated, never knew why I didn't date. I 
did have a total crush on my best friend and had a pretty intense 
relationship with her until she met a guy and that kind of ended 
that.  
Long:  Was there pressure for you to date men?  
Lefton:  No, not at all.  No, I never got any pressure like that. Like I say, my 
social life was a lot hanging out with a bunch of people.  
Raiskin:  So, what years were you in college?   
Lefton:  Sixty eight to '72. I was at Ohio State during, when Kent State 
happened. When the students were killed, and we had the National 
Guard on your campus and tear gas everywhere and I watched 
students getting beat up and things. School closed and we had to 
go home for a couple weeks.  
Raiskin:  And these were anti-war protests?  
Lefton:  Anti-war, yeah.  
Long:  Were you involved in any of the protests?  
Lefton:  No, I wasn't. I was not very involved at all. It definitely had an 
effect on me. I do remember going, when they closed the school 
down, at that time I was living in the dorm and I used to like, my 
commons where I ate my meals, we had to cross the street from the 
dorm, and I can remember there was National Guard soldiers 
marching, basically through my living room, I felt like. Then on the 
way home there was also a trucker strike, and they  had called out 
the National Guard because it was pretty violent, too. Driving on 
the freeway home, there were National Guard on the overpasses.  I 
remember coming home and saying to my friend, "This is it, life is 
never going to be the same, you know?"  And it did kind of go back 
to more normal, but it was very— I remember that period very 
well. That feeling of having tear gas everywhere. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What did you study in college?   
Lefton:  I got my degree in Home Ec and Family and Child Development. 
Mostly, because I didn't know what I wanted to do, and I saw the 
preschool on campus one day, and I thought, well I like little kids. I 
did that for a while, but then one day I all of a sudden realized, I 
can talk to adults now, so I don't need to do this anymore.  
Long:  You said that you felt that you were different somehow, when did 
things click for you, about sexuality?  
Lefton:  Well, I do remember when I said I had this, my best friend from 
high school, and she also went to Ohio State, and  she had a class in 
the same building as me, right after my class, so I’d run into her 
every once in a while. I remember the class I was taking was a 
psychology class, and they were talking about deviant behavior 
and the day we talked about homosexuality I  was like, "Ooh, hm, 
no, no, no, not me." And I remember walking out and seeing my 
girl friend there and going, that was a weird feeling, yeah.  
Raiskin:  So, homosexuality was taught under deviant behavior?  
Lefton:  Deviant behavior. Yeah, mm-hmm [affirmative]. With prostitution 
and I don't remember what else, but yeah. I actually came out in 
1974, with somebody that I met at a NOW meeting, which I 
thought was pretty— 
Raiskin:  The National Organization for Women.  
Lefton:  National Organization for Women, yes. I went there, I'm not sure 
why I went to this NOW meeting, but they had this rap groups  
where we just sat around and talked about feminism, and those 
lights going on about, oh yeah, there's the patriarchy  and all that. 
We formed a— and this is kind of where  music really started 
happening— we formed a group called, it was two men and three 
women from NOW, and we called ourselves “Sugar and Spite” and 
we did original feminist music, mostly, yeah. That 45 single that I 
showed you is a recording of a couple of our songs that we did.  
Long:  From the '70s then?  
Lefton:  From the '70s, yeah from 1975, '76, yeah. When I was living in  
Columbus at this time, and when I first came out, I got involved 
with a music production, concert production group, called the 
Women's Music Union, and we brought different music, women's 
performers, and this is in '76, '77. Like, for instance Cris Williamson  
who was kind of a big women's music star at the time, or just 
coming.  And then, I remember we brought this dance troupe  called 
Wallflower Order from some town called Eugene, Oregon that I'd 
never heard of. So I did that. Also involved in a multimedia 
presentation called Women Against Violence Against  Women, and 
we did skits and readings and music and stuff in that. And then 
when I was living in Columbus I went, in 1975, I went to the first 
Michigan Women's Music festival, which was quite an experience.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe it?  
Lefton:  Yeah. Well, I went again like twelve  years later, and by then it had 
become this huge  thing with like a village they created on this land  
that they own. But the first time I went, it was in Mount Pleasant, 
Michigan and it was on this, just a big open area, there were no 
trees or anything, it was very hot. There was one stage, where later 
on there were lots of stages, you know? I don't know how many 
women, there were hundreds of women there and lots of naked 
women. I remember that night walking around on the land, and 
there were women with little campfires going around and we'd 
stop and sit around and sing or talk or whatever, it was just such an 
amazing feeling to be in this place where it was just all women, and 
mostly all lesbians. This was a time when I had just come out the 
year before, and I know some of my friends and I, we used to talk 
about how our cheeks hurt all the time, because we were always 
smiling. Coming out as a lesbian and coming out as a feminist, and 
being twenty-four, twenty-five years old, there was so much 
potential there. It was a very exciting time.  And then being exposed 
to all this amazing music, and seeing these people perform. Meg 
Christian, who is also one of the founding mothers of women's 
music, and Holly Near, who had been doing social active music for 
many years even before that, and just lots of other people, and 
hearing them. And then getting, over the years, to see these women 
over and over again, and see their music grow  and the audience 
grow. 
 Yeah, and then in 1977 I did the great dyke fantasy and got a VW 
bus and put a bed and cupboards in it and sold everything we had. 
This was with my girlfriend at the time, Wanda, and we sang 
together too, so we packed up everything, all our guitars and  
everything, and our ninety-five pound dog and just got in our van 
and started driving. We had arranged some gigs along the way. We 
put notices in, I think Lavender, or in Lesbian Connection, which was 
a magazine that women just would write, it's still around, and it 
was a way for women to connect with each other. It was before the 
Internet, of course. We wrote to places and just got some gigs set 
up, and then we just started on. So, it was going from town to 
town, going to women's community, and also going to like 
Yellowstone and Glacier, and places like that and just getting to see 
the country,  which was pretty amazing, and living in this van. That 
was an incredible experience because we would, if we didn't have 
something set up, we would go into a city  and we'd find the 
women's bookstore. And there would always be a bulletin board 
that said places to crash, and we'd find some place to crash.  
Raiskin:  So, people's houses were open?  
Lefton:  Yeah. Yeah, and— 
Long:  What was your favorite place along the way?  
Lefton:  Well, one time we were doing a concert outside Helena, Montana 
and we were in some park and it started to rain, and they took us 
inside this cave, and we performed in the cave. That was very cool. 
For those women, it was so amazing for them to have some, they 
were pretty isolated, and to have some music come, live music 
come to them, they were very appreciative. But one of my favorite 
experiences, after we'd traveled for a couple months and we'd been  
camping out in parks and stuff and we drove across— from 
Montana  I think we went into Canada and then drove across B.C., 
to B.C. and got to Vancouver and we're going to the bookstore, 
which is in downtown Vancouver, and Vancouver is a very 
cosmopolitan city. And  everybody was dressed, you know it was 
downtown, they were all dressed up. Men in suits, women in high 
heels and stuff, and we were  in our sweatshirts and jeans.  So, we go 
to the bookstore and it was closed, so that's weird, what are we 
going to do now?  We were going to walk back to our car and we 
passed by this woman who looked kind of like us, and we said, 
"Excuse us, but do you know anything about the women's 
bookstore?" And she said, "Uh, yeah." And we said, "Well it's not 
open." And she goes, "Oh really? Because so-and-so has a shift 
now." And this woman ended up being like a walking encyclopedia  
of the women's community in Vancouver. So she took us to her 
high rise apartment for the night, with our ninety-five pound dog. 
And then she introduced us to these women, and we stayed at a 
lesbian household and just hung out there for a week and became 
really good friends, we continued  friendship with these women for 
several years after that. They had a women's coffeehouse and they 
were telling us, "Have you ever heard of this woman Ferron? And 
we're going, "No." And "Oh, she's from Vancouver, and she's really 
good." Of course Ferron  then became a very well-known  singer 
who I saw described once as, "Someday Bob Dylan will be known 
as the Ferron  of the sixties." Which I always loved.   
 We spent all this time in Vancouver and it was like, that's what it 
was like, you could go somewhere,  we were in Santa Rosa, outside 
of Santa Rosa at a music festival. These women in the blanket next 
to us, we started talking to them and they said, "Oh you can stay at 
our house." And that was kind of our base for the three weeks we 
spent in the Bay Area, just was their house. You know that there 
was that connection, we'd go places and they'd say, "Oh yeah, did 
you know so-and-so? Oh, yeah, we met them when we were there." 
Or they'd give us the name of someone else. That's how we were 
able to travel for all  this time and just get to be places and travel on 
the cheap.  
Raiskin:  How long were you on the road?  
Lefton:  Four months. So, we went from Ohio, all the way across the 
northern part of the country to Vancouver, all the way down the 
coast to San Diego and then to Arizona and the last place was 
Flagstaff. We went to the Grand Canyon, and I looked at it and I 
said, "Yeah, that's nice, it's a big hole in the ground. I want my own 
bathroom." Enough traveling. So, kind of by process of elimination, 
we ended up in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  What did you know of Eugene?  
Lefton:  I never even knew where Oregon was before we came out here, 
and we had spent a couple weeks here. Wanda had an old college 
friend who lived here, so we stayed with him. And then we got 
here, we went to Mother Kali’s Books, which was the bookstore,  
and connected with some people. Eugene was a little difficult place 
though, and I think when we moved here, too, it was very cliquish 
in a lot of ways. I mean, it was a lot of lesbians here, and a lot of 
stuff going on, but it was a little difficult sometimes.  
Raiskin:  Is that why you chose it when you came through? You saw what 
was happening here and came back?  
Lefton:  Well that was part of it, part of it was I didn't want to live in 
California.  
Raiskin:  Why?  
Lefton:  I don't know, just California had this, I don't know, this thing. I 
don't want to live in California. Because Wanda actually had a job 
opportunity in Santa Cruz, but we decided not to go there, and we 
liked Portland, but it was too much like Columbus. Since we had a 
place to stay in Eugene, and we know there was a lot happening 
here, we came here.  
Raiskin:  What year was that?  
Lefton:  It was November of 1977 when we landed here. Pretty soon I got 
pretty involved in— there were a lot of things to get involved in. 
There was a lesbian choir, chorus—this was way before 
Soromundi—which is still around now, but this was, we sang lots 
of women's circle songs and original things and stuff, and so I sang 
in that choir. I also, with a few other women, we created a concert 
production company group called “Eugenia.” I actually found a file  
of some of that stuff too, which I had forgotten about. I think we 
actually maybe did one or two concerts, and then the main woman 
that kind of started it, moved to Portland. We did a concert with 
Naomi Littlebear and Ursa Minor Choir, and they were from  
Portland. That was a great concert, I can still remember that 
concert. I'm trying to think what else I did, so this was in the, 
probably late ‘70s and then I was involved in a women's cabaret 
called Steam Heat. This was a pretty radical show, we actually did 
two versions. I can't remember, it was around 1981, I don't 
remember if that was the first or second one, but they were about a 
year apart. I always loved show tunes and you know, always 
wanted  to do that kind of music. We put together a show, three of 
us put together a show that had show tunes and songs from the 
‘30s and ‘40s. Then we had auditions, and we had all these women 
in the show. It was a, like I say a cabaret, the first show we did at a 
place called Dance Works, which was a dance studio, we did a 
couple weekends there. The next one we did at the WOW Hall, 
Community Center for the Performing Arts. They have this 
incredible wooden dance floor there, and they never let any food or 
drink up there. I don't know if they do now, but they didn't at the 
time. We convinced them to let us— we’d bring in tarps and 
covered the whole floor and tables and chairs, we had food and 
drinks, and this big show, and it was at least three weekends. It's 
sets and we had a band, and I got to do things like, sing with the 
band, bad like Bill Murray’s type, you know, singing, that was so 
much fun for me. But what was great about the show is that it gave  
lesbians who had been kind of, you know, at that time we were all 
like the work boots and no makeup and we're going to reject all 
these feminine kind of characteristics, and whatever. Here was a 
chance where women came to the show, got dressed up, and we 
got to dress up and some of the women in the show were wearing 
long dresses, we were all wearing makeup. I remember there was 
one woman who was like "I'm not wearing makeup." "No, you 
have to do it, because the lights wash you out." And everything. I 
remember by the last weekend she was like, in the mirror putting 
her makeup on. People really got into it.  
 It was really an opportunity to get out of those binds that we put on 
ourselves, because we were rejecting the things that were being 
forced on us, and now we were reclaiming it and getting to do all 
that great music and stuff. Yeah, it was, so when we did it at the 
WOW Hall, we advertised one  of the evenings as being women-
only, because that was a time when there was a lot of— we always 
tried to have women only spaces, and especially for something like 
this, because this was allowing women to come out and do 
something different, but we wanted to allow people to have a safe 
space to do it in. I think we did it the first show that was at Dance 
Works, but it was not very, it was just kind of the women's 
community knew about it. Since this was at the WOW Hall, it was 
much, a lot more people knew about it, so there was a guy who was 
involved in WOW Hall named Jon Pincus who wrote a letter to the 
editor and to the WOW Hall and said, "You know, you can't have 
women only, you can't not let men in." And we were trying to   
explain that this didn't have anything to do with men, it's not like 
we were having this separate show where we were doing, saying 
terrible things about men, it's the same show, we just wanted to 
allow the safe space. It was quite a controversy. How it resolved 
itself, I think, is that we ended up saying, "Okay, it's not women 
only, but we would ask that men not come. Give us that respect 
and not come." And I think it kind of fizzled out, it wasn't a big 
issue  after that. 
Long:  During those years, did you make a living by doing that work?  
Lefton:  No. 
Long:  What work did you do to support yourself?  
Lefton:  Well, let's see, when I first came to Eugene, I worked, I used my 
degree in child development and worked in the latchkey program. 
That was at a time when there was federal funding for, it was like a 
really bad recession then, and there was some federal funding for 
jobs, so I got a job where I didn't have to work too hard, but made 
some money. And then after that, I went to school, I went to Lane 
Community College and studied electronics.  
Raiskin:  What led you do to that?  
Lefton:  I don't know, I think I just took electronic class, I thought maybe I 
can fix my own stereo or something, and then I got into it, so I just 
didn't know what else to do so I went and got a degree. I actually 
did work in electronics manufacturing for quite a few years, I don't  
know how much of my education I used for that, but it was a way 
into it.  So anyhow, I was either in school or working when, I've 
never made a living at  any of the music or comedy or cultural work 
that I’ve  done. It's always been, and I think in a way, I like it that 
way, because I can make my own choices, because it wasn't a job, 
and I didn't have to make any compromises. Because my childhood 
fantasy was  to be a disc jockey, and I used to hang out at the local 
radio station when I was a kid, but I never saw any women there, 
so I didn't think it was possible. Then I took an audio production 
class at Lane Community College, just because I thought it would 
be fun, and it was, and got involved in KLCC, which was the Lane 
Community College public radio station. It was mostly volunteers 
at the time, so I started volunteering there. KLCC had had women's 
programming for quite a while, I think in the early, mid ‘70s they 
had some women's programming. And then when I came to town, I 
used to listen to As The Women Turn, and that was on Sunday 
mornings and it was Thyme, Mint and Shady Grove, and they were 
doing, playing music and stories about women. And then after that  
was over, there was a show called Women's Night Out. That was 
actually mostly straight women that were from the news 
department of KLCC. It was a magazine show, there were  stories of 
interest to women and there was music. At that time, all these, the 
stories they were covering were you know like, abortion rights and 
women's health and the ERA and domestic violence. Those were 
not covered in the news, even on KLCC during the day. It was just 
specialized on Women's Night Out. So, I did some stories for that  
show and at one point they decided they were going to split the 
show into a public affairs show and a music show, and they asked 
me to do music, and I had developed quite a collection of music, I'd 
been to music festivals and had been following women's music. So, 
I thought, and here's my chance to be a disc jockey. Which, I've 
always said I was really glad that I got to do it that way rather than 
working for some radio station, because I got to go up there and 
play whatever music I wanted to play and say whatever I wanted 
to play, and the station was always really supportive of everything 
I did.  Eventually, the news stories that were being played on 
Women's Night Out  were being repeated then on other news shows 
on KLCC, so they actually were starting to cover women's issues, 
and eventually Women's Night Out  ended, but my music show 
continued. I started it in 1981, and it was Monday nights from ten 
to eleven, and a few years later they gave me an extra half hour. For 
seventeen  years I drove over that hill, rain or shine, the hill going 
down to the LCC main campus, where the radio station was then, 
and got to play music. 
Raiskin:  What kind of music did you play?  
Lefton:  Well, when I first started out, I played women, lesbian music like 
you know the people that were really well known in the 
community, like Meg Christian, Cris Williamson, and Teresa Trull 
and all kinds of other people. I also, at the beginning I used to play 
occasionally something from my own collection, like something 
from like, show tunes or something like, I think it's Cole Porter, I  
think it's from Kiss Me Kate, has a song called “I Hate Men,” so I 
played that I remember one time. And comedy, there's some 
women's comedy that I would play. As the years went by, there 
was more and more to choose from. There was a lot to choose from.  
Long:  Did you have call-in opportunities or feedback from the public?  
Lefton:  Oh yeah, I did, I got letters, I got people calling, it was really kind 
of a center too, because besides playing the music and making 
music available to everybody out there, I interviewed artists that 
were coming through town. I always had a calendar every week of 
events that are going on. I was underwritten by women's 
businesses, and other businesses too that supported the show.  
Long:  So, it was an evening show?  
Lefton:  Yeah. It was 9:30 to 11:00 Monday evenings, yeah. And it was fun 
because I'd be out there at LCC and the whole campus was closed, 
and I'd go into the studio and I'd be there by myself till the next 
person came to do the next show. There was a dimmer light in the 
studio, so I'd turn the lights down, and crank the music up and 
play whatever I was in the mood to listen to that day. At first, it 
was kind of scary doing live radio, because when I did produced 
pieces, I'd take my razor blade and cut out stuff that I didn't like, 
but the one thing I do like about radio is, it goes off of the airwaves 
and it's gone. And if I find myself talking and realizing, I don't 
know what I'm saying, I could just say, "Now back to the music."  
Raiskin:  How did you get the music, did you have to buy it?   
Lefton:  No, most of the way the radio station got albums was the labels 
would send them promos, also I would ask people, if they were in 
town for concerts or something, I'd ask. And then after a while, we 
were underwritten by Mother Kali's Books and Records, so we 
actually had a trade with them. I would just go in there and spend 
our trade and get records. Records, yeah it started off with LPs and 
then went to CDs,  which is not as much fun, because the thing that 
I loved about— one of the things that I loved about doing radio is 
the segue between the records. If you do a really sweet segue, it's 
like, oh that's good, you know, fade down one and bring the other 
up. And the way you get the LPs to work, you move it, you can 
hear the sound, and you can find out when it gets to the beginning 
of a song, and then you kind of just do it back a quarter of a turn so 
that when you turn it on, the turntable gets up to speed just  as the  
music is starting. It was very kinetic. But the CD, you just press a 
button, you know? It wasn't as much fun, but you also didn't have 
all the scratches and jumping and— 
Raiskin:  What years was that show on?  
Lefton:  So, it was from '81 until '98. 
Raiskin:  And why did you end?  
Lefton:  Well, I got tired of driving over there every week. Things had 
changed, just like the news was— women's news was not covered 
other places, you never heard— when I first started, you didn't 
hear women on the air, hardly even singing. Certainly not doing  
instrumentals, and you never heard their stories. By the time I 
finished doing the show, a lot of the people that I'd been playing 
for years, they were, at least on KLCC, were playing during the 
day. And also, people that got their starts at women's music 
festivals like Melissa Etheridge and Tracy Chapman, they were 
well known. In that way, there wasn't as much need for it. Now, 
when I turn on some pop radio station, there's always women, 
strong women, you know?  That's really changed. I think there was 
still a place for having a center for women to kind of gather for that 
ninety  minutes a day, a week. I just kind of was done with it. I 
wasn't going, as involved, I wasn't going to music festivals 
anymore, so I  wasn't keeping up with all the music that was out 
there. I tended to like to play the oldies, the stuff that I grew up 
with, like from the ‘70s.  
Long:  Was that work paid, or did you just do it— 
Lefton:  No, it was a volunteer.  
Long:  Volunteer?  
Lefton:  Yeah. And also the other thing is that I was then involved in doing 
improvisational comedy and I wanted to put more energy into that, 
too. So that was WYMPROV!, the improv  group that I was in. We 
started together in 1991, and performed up until last year, four of 
us. I think what we did was also very political, in that— we started 
doing improv before it was as popular as it became. Usually, you 
see a lot, if you watch other improv groups, coed ones, the women  
usually always were, mother or whore,  basically, you know? What 
I liked about what we did was we were kind of genderless. That we 
might put on some characteristic that might seem more male or 
more female, but depending on who was watching it, they saw it 
different. So you could be like a couple, we could be doing a scene 
about a couple, and somebody watching it might think, "Oh, she's 
playing a man and she's a woman." But somebody else might say, 
"Oh, these are two women in the couple." And it didn't really 
matter, because that didn't have anything to  do with the story, 
usually. I think that was a really important thing that we were 
doing, of just getting out there and not worrying about gender, and 
not worrying about the rules.  
Raiskin:  Who did you perform for?  
Lefton:  Well, we performed hundreds of places, we produced our own 
local shows. The first time we performed was at a women's coffee 
house. One Common Thread, that's before we actually even were a 
troupe, we were just like, we had so much fun and we said to each 
other in the dressing room in the intermission, "I guess we're a 
comedy troupe now,” because that was really fun.   
Raiskin:  Who was in it?  
Lefton:  It was me, Sally Sheklow, Debby Martin, and Vicki Silvers. We 
were playing, just doing improv with a bunch of other women, and 
when One Common Thread said, "Will you come and do comedy 
for us?" Everybody else said, no we don't want to do it on stage, so  
it was just the four of us then, so we ended up doing that. Yeah, so 
we performed, we did some festivals, we did the Pacific Northwest 
Music and Comedy Festival up in Bellingham a couple times. We 
went to Chicago and performed at a women's comedy improv 
festival there. We did private parties, we did political fundraisers, 
we do conferences, so. In fact, the last show we performed was at 
the Provender Alliance, which is a natural foods organization.  That 
was the third time we'd been there. But we did also, it's interesting 
because I've been  going through, I had made scrapbooks over the 
years, so I have all our flyers, and articles about us and stuff, and I 
was going through it and realizing that we did a lot of political 
fundraisers for all the anti-gay measures that were going on, yeah.  
Long: And that's a good transition to the ballot measures. And actually, 
when you were here in '77— 
Lefton:  Yeah.  
Long:  So you were here in Eugene for Referendum— 
Lefton:  Fifty two, 51, yes.  
Long:  Fifty one.  
Lefton:  I was, yes.  
Long:  Can you talk about that?  
Lefton:  Yeah, I came in November, in I guess ‘77, so it was that spring I 
think when the vote was. Yeah, it was, to tell you the truth, the  
thing I remember most about it was being involved in doing a 
fundraiser at the WOW Hall for the show, and I went outside to my 
car to get something, and I slipped and broke my leg. So, when I 
think of 51, I think of breaking my leg at the WOW Hall. Yeah, it 
wasn't until I was reading stuff the other day that I realized that, oh 
yeah, we lost that one. But you know,  all of those things have 
always been, the OCA, the Oregon Citizens Alliance, and all the 
things that they started doing, I mean, what they did was force us 
to organize, and force our allies to come out. You know, I guess we 
have to thank them for that. They all kind of run into, together to 
me, all those different measures. A couple of them had the same 
number too, I think.  
Raiskin:  How did they feel, and how do you feel it affected your 
community?  
Lefton:  Yeah. I remember feeling bad. As they went on, it's really bad, 
because you hear these people saying these terrible things about 
you. Like, how much fecal matter gay people eat. I mean, it's just, it 
was demoralizing, as well as having all this community support. I 
think that it was maybe something, maybe it's kind of similar to 
what's going on now in the world. Is that, all that shit is there and 
you still have to go on and try and live your life. But it is, it kind of 
makes you sick to your stomach a lot, and I think that's what it was 
like then, yeah. And you know, we'd do this one fight, and then 
they'd start in again with another. And I know people— 
Springfield passed an anti-gay law, and you know, I still— I mean,  
Springfield has changed a lot, but still when I hear, oh I have to go 
to Springfield, I still have that feeling of like, "Oh, they hate gays 
there." Which, I don't really think they do anywhere more than 
anywhere else. 
Long:  You've been in Eugene for quite a long time now,  could you just 
spend a moment to tell us how you've seen Eugene change over 
time? There's been a lot of growth in a number of different ways, 
do you— 
Lefton:  Yeah.  
Long:  Have any recollection of those kinds of changes?  
Lefton:  Well, yeah I mean, Eugene has grown, it's gotten bigger, and more 
traffic, and all of that. I remember I used to hang out downtown a 
lot, and it wasn't very busy there, but then downtown became 
totally dead, and now downtown is so alive and yet people still 
don't want to go down there. But it really, every time I go 
downtown it’s like, "Oh, this is so different, there's like people 
down here." You know, and as far as the women's community, I 
mean there was, when I first came there were so many different 
women's organizations and women's groups, and Starflower, and 
Amazon Kung Fu and women's circles. I remember a time where 
my vet, and my doctor and my hairdresser and my garbage 
collector were all lesbians and it was just— so now I think, and part 
of it I think is because we're older, too. The majority of my friends 
are lesbians still, and a lot of them that I've had since that time. But  
there seems to be not that central place anymore, or central places 
to go where— 
Raiskin:  Do you remember some of the places, restaurants or— 
Lefton:  Well, yeah, there was Gertrude's Café.  
Raiskin:  Where was that?  
Lefton:  That was on Lincoln, I think, yeah Lincoln, it was a women's, a 
lesbian, I think it was a co-op or collective, a collective probably, 
and then it later became the Wild Iris. There was the Riviera Room, 
which was the lesbian bar, which is now Actor's Cabaret. It just 
seemed that there were  events going on all the time, too. There was, 
like I say, One Common Thread, which was the coffee house. It was 
a moving around coffee house, but they would just have an event 
where they would have music or something.  
Raiskin:  So, a moving around coffee house, they would go to different 
locations?  
Lefton:  Yeah. I mean it wasn't like a place that you would just go to, but 
they would say, "Okay, we're having an event." And it would  be 
like at Condon school,  Agate Hall. I remember that one, because 
that's where WYMPROV!  performed, I don't know, remember 
where else they did. I'm thinking back a long time, well there was 
Zoo Zoo's which was kind of a hippie collective restaurant. And 
Mama's Homefried Truckstop.   
Long:  You were here when downtown became a pedestrian mall, or 
maybe it already was— 
Lefton:  It was.  
Long:  It was already a pedestrian mall? Okay.  
Lefton:  Yeah. I was here when they knocked the fountain down.  
Raiskin:  What was your housing situation, how were you living?  
Lefton:  When I first came to town, we moved out of the Volkswagen bus 
into a little house. Then I moved, after a few months, to a little 
house at the corner of Fifth  and Blair, which is right across the 
street from Zoo Zoo's restaurant and Mother Kali's, which was 
right there, too, so that was kind of, which is now the hip 
neighborhood, the “Whit,” but at that time it was not a hip 
neighborhood, but that's where kind of alternative people were. 
And then I moved into a rental house kind of on West Eighth  and 
then moved around the corner. I bought a house, and I've been in 
that house for over thirty  years.  
Raiskin:  And what was your relationship, who were you involved with? 
What were your relationships?  
Lefton:  Well you know, Wanda, who I had come out here with, and I were 
together a total of twelve  years and then we split up, and then I got 
involved in Baleboostehs, which is a Jewish lesbian group. And 
that's where I kind of got to  know Sally, who became my partner, 
and wife. We've been together over thirty  years now. So, yeah, I  
think that's a lot of where my friendships circles  were either 
through some of the performing I was doing, or through the Jewish 
lesbian community.  
Raiskin: Were you involved with a synagogue at all, or was it an extra— 
Lefton:  No, I think one of the reasons that Baleboostehs  started, which was 
I want to say in the mid-‘80s sometime, was that there were a lot of 
us that really identified with our Jewish, with being Jewish, but 
didn't feel comfortable in the Jewish community, and also were 
missing something from the lesbian community and being Jewish, 
because in general, there appeared to be some maybe, ignorance, or 
it just didn't feel comfortable. So, to be  somewhere with people 
where you could be Jewish and lesbian was just, able to relax. I was 
involved, like I said when I was younger, with my temple when I 
was growing up, but I kind of left that when I moved away from 
Cleveland, and kind of rejected the patriarchy of it and all that. 
Then when I came back in to Baleboostehs, being involved in being 
Jewish with Baleboostehs, I still wasn't interested in going to the 
synagogue. Sally started going when her mother died, and she'd 
say, "Do you want to go?"  And I'd go, "Nah." And then every once 
in a while I'd go, and then after the year that she was going, it was 
like, oh this is pretty good. Because the synagogue had become 
fairly progressive, and they had, even though the book they were 
using at the time,  the prayer book still had the gendered “Lord” 
and “He” and all that, when they read it, they read it ungendered, 
so that helped a little. As the years went on it became a new prayer  
book, and a new leadership, and it became some place where I felt 
that I could find a spiritual home. More than a spiritual home, it's 
really more of a social, just still of being part of the Jewish 
community, which was always, it was important to me, and still is.  
Raiskin: Did you ever come out to your parents?  
Lefton:  You know, I never really came out to them, I just was myself, and 
that's kind of how I am with everybody. I didn't make a big deal 
out of it, I'd just bring my girlfriend home or something, you 
know? And my father died, he was fairly young, he was sixty-one I 
think, and so, I was out and he had met my girlfriend at the time. 
He was very comfortable, and after he died, my mom was very 
supportive. She would send me articles that she'd find in the 
Cleveland Jewish news about a gay synagogue or something like 
that. She came here to be at our wedding when Sally and I got 
married. Yeah, she was always very supportive. And my cousins, 
too. Like I say, nobody really, I never came out, my family has 
always been fine with it. 
Raiskin:  Can you remember, maybe some conflicts that were in the 
community? In the years that you were living here.  
Lefton:  It's so funny, I just found something that I had written, like when I 
first got here. It was, kind of like I wasn't very happy with things 
with the community, but it also said kind of like— well, every big 
community has this, so whatever, you know? I think there was this, 
there was a lot of, I don't want to use the term radical, but strong  
feelings about classism, the people that might have been really 
involved in the class struggles and reading Mao's Little Red Book 
and things like that. I was never in that, but I know there were 
people that were strong in that. There were separatists and I don't 
particularly remember, other than that one women-only space we 
tried to create, I remember there, I don't remember being embroiled 
in a lot of conflict. It's funny you should ask that because I'm sure 
there was, but I kind of probably just, I'm the kind of person that's 
just like, I'm not going to get into the drama of it. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And were people fluid in their relationships, or were people 
coupling up at certain times?  
Lefton:  Oh there was, I was very unusual because I was always in 
monogamous relationships, which is interesting, because I think  
people kind of respected that, because we used to—I can remember 
people coming when they needed help with something or support, 
like because we were this solid relationship. But non-monogamy 
was a big deal for a lot of people, but I wasn't, that was not part of 
my life.  
Raiskin:  So you say it was respected, that if people were exploring other 
ways, they still found your situation something to be worthy and 
not— 
Lefton:  I think so.  
Raiskin:  Looked down on?   
Lefton:  I think so, because especially like, I remember that Wanda and I, 
we were pretty stable, until we broke up, but we were very stable. I 
remember people coming that needed help, coming to us, and 
sometimes it was like, "Why don't they stop coming to us?" But it 
was clear  because we were like these two stable people and you 
know, we had this relationship, we also were both individually 
stable people, so.  Yeah, I do remember, well I remember a 
controversy of women-only space, more so reading about it at the 
music festivals and everything. Women-born women, and all that, 
but that was like really early on, before the trans movement got to 
where it is today. Yeah.  
Long:  Do you recall any problems with healthcare for lesbians?  
Lefton:  No, I had a lesbian doctor. 
Raiskin:  Did you seek her out on purpose?  
Lefton:  Actually, I don't think she was a lesbian when I first started going 
to see her. No, I never had an issue. I don't remember, because I 
was out to my doctor, and then I, but I don't remember ever having 
any issues that would really have anything to  do with my 
sexuality.  
Raiskin:  Do you ever feel self-conscious, even now, coming out to a doctor, 
just to let them know?  
Lefton:  No, because I don't think I would go to a doctor unless I was sure 
that they were comfortable.   
Raiskin:  And how would you find  that out before going?  
Lefton:  Well, from referring. Like, I have two gynecologists right now, one 
referred me to the other. The first one I got referred to by the nurse 
practitioner that I used to go to.  
Raiskin:  That's interesting, so a network maybe of— 
Lefton:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Physicians.  
Lefton:  Yeah, so no, I've always felt very comfortable. I mean, even my 
orthopedic surgeon, I didn't have to come out to him. I'd bring 
Sally with me to, he starts asking me, "Do you know so-and-so?" 
Because he had these lesbian friends. So yeah, it's never really been 
an issue.  
Raiskin:  And what do you think about Eugene as a place to age as a lesbian?  
Lefton:  Well, I don't know, because it's one of those things that I try not to 
think about, but I know I should think  about. I don't know what it's 
going to be like. I mean, now that you know, as I'm healthy, it's 
fine. And I do have a support system if I have some non-critical 
issues going on. But not having children, and not really being very 
connected to my family of origin. Sometimes it does worry me 
when I think about what could happen, what is going to happen to 
me. There really aren't any, that I'm aware of, any places for 
women to, for lesbians to be out and taken care of.   
Raiskin:  When you think about retirement places that are men and women, 
is that an uncomfortable feeling? If you were to live in such a 
situation?  
Lefton:  To tell you the truth, the thing that makes me more uncomfortable 
about retirement places, is that they all seem so Christian, and 
that's what worries me much more than being a lesbian.  
Raiskin:  And what does that feel like? What— 
Lefton:  Well, that I'm not going to be seen for who I am, and have my 
needs met for what I need, and also be around people, and people 
saying things that are going to  make me uncomfortable, you know?  
Raiskin:  Anti-Semitism, or ignorance?  
Lefton:  Not anti— ignorance and just you know, I think that it seems like, 
as people get older, they often get more religious too, so maybe 
even if someone wasn't as religious when they were younger, but 
then they get older. You know, and I don't want to hear people 
talking about Jesus, or Christmas, I don't want to be somewhere 
where there's Christmas decorations up.  
Raiskin:  How has Eugene felt for you at Christmastime?  
Lefton:  Terrible. You know, I know the controversies of the, whether there 
should be decorations, and what kind they should be, and whether 
you could decorate your own workspace and all that. It's just a 
hard time, and I mostly have worked in small businesses where 
there's been some sensitivity, but you know, or saying we're going  
to have a holiday party, it's like, just call it a Christmas party, 
because that's what it is. But it’s a hard time of year, it is. But that's 
what I said, when I joined Baleboostehs, that part of combining the 
being Jewish and being lesbian was so important, because in a way, 
for me, especially in Eugene, it's been much easier being a lesbian 
than being Jewish.  
Raiskin:  We've heard that from people we've been interviewing. I'm 
wondering if you have a theory about the relationship between 
Judaism and feminism or lesbianism? Why there might be feminist 
leaders who are Jewish.  
Lefton:  Oh, feminist leaders that are Jewish, oh yeah. Well you know, I 
think there's the Tikkun olam, which is to make the world a better 
place, and that's one of the tenets of, at least progressive Judaism. 
And then, I think that there's, has traditionally been an emphasis on 
learning and education for Jewish people, Jewish men and women. 
Jews have been involved in socially progressive movements like, 
the civil rights movement, and unions and I mean, I don't know 
where it all started, but I think that's just part of it, and feminism 
and yeah, that there are a lot of feminists, Jewish feminists, and 
lesbian. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Is there something we haven't asked you, or haven't very well 
captured through our questions about your time in Eugene over all 
these years? Or some experience that we haven't asked you about?   
Lefton:  The story I did kind of want to relate, which is, I thought kind of 
interesting, because I told you about how we, I got across the 
country just running into lesbians, and identifying each other and 
all that. It was just a month or two ago, Sally and I were just 
walking in our neighborhood, and this woman, you know a dyke-y 
woman, comes up to us and says, "Excuse me, but do you happen 
to know Nadia Telsey?" Who is this Jewish lesbian friend of ours, 
right? And we go, "Yeah." And she said, "Well, I'm an old friend of 
hers from New York and I'm in Eugene today,  and I'm trying to get 
ahold of her." So I said, "Well I have her phone number." And we 
called her and stuff, and she wasn't home, or she didn't answer the 
phone, so we told her how to get to her house and all that.  
Raiskin:  So, you were like the women in  Vancouver?  
Lefton:  Exactly. And so, and then I said to her, kind of jokingly, "How 
come you asked us if we knew Nadia?" And she said, "Well, I just 
saw two kind of women that looked like me of my age, and I just 
thought I'd try  it." But I thought that was  just so great,  and I think 
that's true of the— probably true of the lesbian community all over 
the world probably, but it Eugene it really is. It's like, it's a small 
enough, at least those that have been around for the last twenty  or 
thirty  years, it's small enough that we do know each other, and that 
we can identify each other on the street. It was just great.  
Raiskin:  What about the lawsuit?   
Lefton:  Oh, the lawsuit, yeah. I can't remember the year now, but the 
ACLU wanted, this is for marriage equality,  the ACLU wanted to 
sue the state of Oregon and they got seven couples to be part of the 
suit. What we did is we went down to the county courthouse and 
asked for a marriage license application, and got— 
Raiskin:  What year is this?  
Lefton:  Well, I was trying to remember when it was, I'd have to look it up, 
but it was when the Measure 36 passed. It was before Measure 36.  
Raiskin:  And Measure 36 was the?  
Lefton:  The constitutional amendment.  
Raiskin:  To say that marriage could only be between a man and a woman?  
Lefton:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  Which did pass.  
Lefton:  Which did pass, but this was before Measure 36, a little bit before 
Measure 36. So we went down and asked for a license and were 
refused  it, so that was like part of our suit. The suit went through 
all the courts and it went to the Oregon Supreme Court, it was like 
right after Measure 36 passed. We went to the— got to go and sit in 
the chambers and stuff for court, and they basically said, "Well it's 
moot now, because of this constitutional amendment." So we didn't 
win our suit.  
Raiskin:  What did it feel like to be part of that suit?   
Lefton:  Well, I just loved being, getting to do something. I've always felt 
like, as far as— besides my political cultural work that I've done, 
mostly how I feel like I contribute to being political is just being 
myself. You know, like not making an issue, just being who I am, 
introducing my partner, my wife or whatever we're calling her at 
the time. That was an opportunity to be able to just say— we didn't 
have to really do anything— we did some press conferences or 
something, but mostly we just had our name on the thing, on the 
suit. That time was really hard, when 36 passed, it was just 
devastating.  
Long:  Is that still in the Oregon Constitution? It hasn't— 
Lefton:  You know, I was just thinking about that, it's probably still in the 
constitution, but it can't be enforced anymore, because supposedly 
it's against the U.S. Constitution. Who knows what might happen. 
Yeah, I mean, Sally and I have gotten married, or  tried to get 
married very many times over the years, so I was trying to keep 
track of all the different weddings and ceremonies and certificates 
we have, but so that's why I can't remember the year of this. Yeah, 
every time it was always really hard. I remember Sally telling me 
once, "In our lifetime marriage is going to be legal." I remember 
thinking, "Nah, she's very optimistic." It just amazed me that it 
happened so fast. Yeah. And you know, just to know you don't 
have to worry about all those little legal things and everything. 
Another interesting thing that happened when the— let's see I 
think— we got married in Canada, so we were legally married in  
Canada, but it wasn't recognized here. Then I think Oregon 
recognized it first, before the federal government did, if I 
remember. Anyhow, when it was finally recognized by the federal 
government, it was the first time I was able to talk about my wife. 
Because first of all, that term has such a loaded thing, you know, 
wife, so it never sounded right. But the first few times I said it, it 
was really kind of weird, but now, it's like people get it.  People 
totally get it. But, yeah, I think, Oregon was in the, one of the worst 
places for all, because of the Oregon Citizens Alliance. All the 
horrible things that they did and the one guy Scott Lively that's 
doing the same thing in Uganda now, you know where people are 
getting killed. It was a really, many years of feeling really bad and 
saying, "Do we have to keep doing this? Keep fighting and 
fighting." And now, except for the current political situation in the 
White House, but other than that, it just like feels so good to finally 
be like, "Okay, I'm sixty-eight  years old and I can finally relax and 
be who I am."  
Raiskin:  What would you say was a major joy for you  of living in the lesbian 
community in Eugene?  
Lefton:  I just think of all the great gatherings we had, concerts and pride 
celebrations and just seeing women, all of us, seeing us 
everywhere. And not just in women's gatherings, but also just 
around in life. To feel integrated in the community, I guess. That's 
it, I do feel very integrated into the community, even though it's  
really still important to have our own little, or big, lesbian 
community. I feel very integrated into the Eugene community.  
Raiskin:  And is there anything  that you would say, if you think about a 
young person watching this interview, at this point of your life, 
that you would, advice or observations you would make to a 
young person?  
Lefton:  Well, I was thinking back to when I first came out, when I was 
twenty-four, twenty-five,  and we had some friends who were older 
lesbians, and I remember being at this party and hearing these 
women talking about, "Oh is so-and-so dating this person?" "Oh no, 
because she's a butch." You know, it was like, two butches would 
not be together. And I remember just kind of rolling my eyes and 
thinking, "Oh wow, come on." Because, here I was this radical 
feminist dyke. And now, we're having to work so hard to really  
understand the queer, non-binary, flow, gender flow kind of, and 
new words and things that is, sometimes I think, I don't want to do 
it, I just want to stay where I am, and then I realize, just like the 
whole world, but the queer community is constantly changing and 
it's right for where it is, right now, it is right. Those women that 
were butch and femme, that was what was right for them right 
then, you know? So, I just say, be yourself, and keep changing and 
keep building, and find out what's next.  
Raiskin: Thank you so much.  
Long:  Thank you.   
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  