  
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Susan Detroy, on September 12, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Susan, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project, and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Detroy:  I agree.   
Long:  Thank you. So, the first question is can you please tell us when and 
where you were born and where you grew up and something 
about your early background?  
Detroy:  I was born in Evansville, Indiana and I grew up there, lived there 
until I went to college, although I attended summer school in  
Mexico in high school. And I might have you repeat the question 
because I'm nervous in the beginning. My childhood was fairly 
suburban. My father was a dentist, my mother was a homemaker. I 
was the first of three children, all girls. We lived in Evansville until 
I went off to college. We lived in maybe four or five different 
houses. My father being a dentist, he went to school in, what's it 
called? GI Bill. And so he had that trade and we as a family kind of 
followed his rise in financial wellness, so to speak. And I went to 
two grade schools, two high schools and was a good student.  
 I studied and did what was hoped for me as a child. Let's see. Is 
there anything else? I had an early love of dancing. That was like 
my thing. My mom sent me to a lot of different lessons. I've done 
every kind of dancing you can imagine. Maybe not Balinese, but as 
a child I did a lot of dancing, acrobatics, toe tap, ice skating, 
tumbling, all of that. And I kept that throughout my life as a love. I 
was a polio pioneer. I just thought of that, which I talk about some 
times because I really thought that was cool to be a polio pioneer, 
which was you may know or not the first children to have received 
the shot, a polio vaccine, the Salk  vaccine. And that was 
momentous to me.   
Raiskin: How old were you?  
Detroy:  Grade school. Maybe third or fourth. I don't know exactly.  
Raiskin: What year were you born did you say?  
Detroy:  Forty-six.  
Long:  Okay.  
Detroy:  May twenty-seventh, forty-six. I was trying to think of things that 
happened in grade school, first. I played Carmen Miranda. I was 
Carmen Miranda. I loved costumes as a kid and I did Carmen 
Miranda on the stage. So, I'm just clicking through memories of 
childhood. I remember when there was rotary dials and we had an 
assembly and they had a giant phone and we went from like four 
numbers to six or something, and they were teaching us how to use 
the dial phone. That was like a big memory. I remember rearning 
reading  in kindergarten, I loved learning and reading with those 
giant Dick and Jane books. I remember that.  
 Then let's see. High school.  I went to school during desegregation. I 
first went to— some of this makes me cry. I went to Central High 
School.  I lived in the suburbs and we were bused downtown. 
Long: Excuse me, is this in Evanston?  
Detroy:  Evansville.  
Long: Evansville.   
Detroy:  Which is near Kentucky in the toe of Indiana. Often confused with 
Evanston. I was blissfully kind of a naive child. I really didn't 
understand or have awareness of politics or I just liked partying 
and being with my friends, I liked dancing and I just liked school. I 
was just kind of in my world, suburban home life. And when 
looking back, now  I understand what happened, is that during the 
segregation I went during forced segregation, the city built another 
high school. So the people in the suburbs didn't have to send their 
kids to downtown.  
 It was like a way around desegregation. And so, but what was 
good for me, like I'm just, I wasn't even aware that desegregation 
was happening. I was like, “Oh, a new  school.” And so what 
happened is I was in a very tiny class of fifty people that went 
through that school. Because you're the first class. That was my 
junior and senior years in high school.  
Raiskin:  These are all white students then?  
Detroy:  Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah. I don't know that there were any African 
American or what at the time we called black students then at 
Harrison High School. In Central, they were all left there. And 
when I was at Central, I was just blissfully unaware. I didn't have 
any consciousness that something was different. I just didn't. But 
that was more imposed upon me by my family who were German 
American immigrants and they were pretty racist people. But 
anyway, so I'm in high school, my favorite classes— I just was 
talking with my niece about this. What's your favorite classes? And  
mine were languages. I loved language and grammar and that's 
where I learned— I started taking Spanish in high school and I had 
this fantastic teacher, Dallas Calmus who was  from Bogota, 
Columbia and lived some in  Venezuela.  
 And she taught sentence structure and a class called, Word Power, 
and that created a love of language and speaking and just reading. 
That really reinforced and started me on a whole pathway, which I 
think happens sometimes for young people in high school. And 
from that I studied Spanish. I went to Mexico in high school. I 
studied Spanish in college. I taught Spanish, I lived in Mexico.  So 
all of that  instigated that inspiration. I was trying to think if there 
was anything about high school, other— I was kind of in a sub-
cheerleaders slot. I wasn't like in the cheerleaders, but I was like a 
substitute cheerleader, so I aspired and that kind of came out of my 
desire to move my body. I really liked dancing and it's a big part of 
my life. My whole life has been about keeping my body moving. I 
love that part. In college I was in a dance club. I took a lot of 
dancing and continued to study Spanish. I also studied French 
some and language. And I was in a sorority  in college.  
Long:  Where did you go to college?  
Detroy:  I went to college at DePauw  University in Greencastle, Indiana. It 
was pretty conservative,  it was the choice of my parents, although I 
had scholarships to go elsewhere. I went there, I was told to go 
there. So I did. That was when I began to branch out from my 
family conservative holdings and I did start drinking there and just  
partying, I was having a good time. I still did really well in school. I 
did well in my classes, although some classes were a struggle for 
me, the math and the— anyway. It wasn't a time when people still 
just got B.A.s. They didn't have like— just had a general studies. It 
was different, like you had a major, but you didn't degree in a 
particular program. So I took a lot of general classes, like geology— 
you had to take so many in science. It was sort of more like high 
school. And so I continued there and my major was Spanish and 
my minor was psychology. And from there I taught school. St. 
Louis and Cincinnati.  
Raiskin: Did you, in high school or in college, have any inklings  that you 
might be a lesbian?  
Detroy:  Only with hindsight. I kind of knew what the word lesbian meant, 
sort of. It's hard to go back in time and separate my brain now to 
my brain then, because I just didn't have information coming to me. 
I didn't know what orgasm was. I didn't know what contraception 
was. I didn't know what intercourse was. I didn't know about any 
of that. Like, I didn't know.  
Raiskin: You didn't know any sexual education in high school?  
Detroy:  They had about your period.  They  had those Disney movies about 
your period, to teach you that you bled and pictures of the— but 
they didn't talk about like penises and vaginas. They just talked 
about the female reproduction organs, like how they functioned  
and how to get your maxi pad, your pads up, with those clippy 
things. And my parents did not tell me anything. And so I— 
Raiskin: Were they religious?  
Detroy:  They came from a very strong  kind of German background. So they 
weren't so much religious. Although, yes. Not like religious like 
you might think of today. But we did go to church often and we 
were in a sect called Evangelical Reformed United Church of 
Christ. And it was kind of a minimalized sect, I would call it a sect 
now, that was founded by my immigrant relatives. And we went 
every week until I refused to go. I would say it— I would say that 
religious experience— not the word tainted— influenced me in a 
negative way. I have prejudice about religion that I have to be 
careful about.  
Raiskin: What were your negative experiences about religion?  
Detroy:  Forced sitting in just pews for hours. 
Raiskin: Did you disagree— 
Detroy:  Hypocrisy. People  being in church, talking about one thing and 
then speaking racist, terrible things in their homes. I just saw the 
hypocrisy very young. I noticed that. I didn't say anything but I 
noticed. I didn't like it. Meanness. So let's see. Moving along. In 
college  I lived in Spain, which was a fantastic time in my life. I 
applied and was accepted to Vanderbilt University  year abroad or 
whatever it's called. I don't know what's called now. Then it was  
called that. It was completely eye-opening  to me to live in another 
country. To see the United States from another country is chillingly 
eye-opening. And I lived there during the Cuban Missile Crisis and 
that was scary because I couldn't completely understand what was 
happening in Cuba.  
 So I was  in Spain living, like going to school and trying to read the 
papers and understand what was happening. I loved living in 
Spain and I didn't want to come back. And I stayed there for quite a 
while, but I did ultimately come back to United States and finish  
college.  
Raiskin: Did you make friends in Spain?  
Detroy:  Yeah, yeah. I didn't speak English for a long time and I had trouble 
adjusting coming back because I couldn't remember how to speak 
English. Literally, could not remember because I didn't speak 
English  the whole time I was there. So I know how to speak 
Spanish. If I get started I can do it. But it's in there. So let's see. So I 
finished college. I had at a hard time at the end of college. That was 
when I started having panic attacks and anxiety and although I'd 
had them as child, I'm just noting that now, because I only 
understand that by looking back, which is true over and over in my 
life. At that point, I did teach in St. Louis for a while and I got 
married very briefly to a man and that most of— I didn't know.  In 
addition to not understanding about sexuality, I had no learning 
about relationships. And so I made really bad choices. I didn't 
know how to choose people. I just had no understanding. No one  
told me how to do it. So I made some choices that were not good 
for me. Ultimately, I chose a lot of people that were addicts and I 
chose people like abusive relationships. So I went through some 
period of time after college and I got married and I left that person 
because it's completely controlling person. Anyway, so there was a 
period where I was married and then I went to— so the bridge to 
Eugene is that I was living in Cincinnati and I went with my then 
husband to a place, a commune in Indiana where he lived and his 
friends. And it was that place that I met someone and I lived in that 
commune for, I don't know, a year or two, I can't remember exactly.  
 And it was there that I made a split with my family, because I just, 
they just were so angry at me, but I split and kind of became kind 
of nomadic and lived in a van and traveled around. And that's how 
I got to Eugene, it was through that travel with that guy I met. Who 
lives here still, we're still acquaintances and his daughter is my 
goddaughter, my thirty-one year old goddaughter.  
Raiskin: So would you back up a minute, when you got married, did your 
parents approve of the marriage?  
Detroy:  No. No, not at all. And I was experiencing a lot of psychological 
problems. I was taking a lot of— not barbiturates— downers to 
keep myself calm. And so in that kind of haze of that, I got married, 
I'm still taking a lot of those drugs. Anyway. So yeah, they did not 
approve of that and I kind of escaped from— I call it escaped and 
went to live with a friend, and then I hooked up with the commune 
people. I mean, the details aren't that important, but I hooked up  
with that and it felt like, Oh, this is my place. I really like it here. 
We lived in a commune outside of Richmond, Indiana, which is 
near Earlham  and all the people, the men in that commune, were 
COs, conscientious objectors. And we just lived in this incredible 
place on this farm land that was owned by these two gay men who 
had swans, and were concert pianists or something. They lived 
over the Hill and they owned all this land. I don't know how those 
people that were there before me got there.  
 But I still have some connection with those people. A little bit from 
time to time, I'll hear about them, but definitely Mitch, who  I lived 
there with, we got a van together, before vans and just built a floor 
and traveled through Canada and through here, through the East 
Coast. Came back through Indiana, tried to make up with my 
family. It was a big scene, no, it didn't happen, and then went 
down to California and then up to Eugene and that's how I moved 
here.  
Raiskin: And what year did you come here?  
Detroy:  Around ‘71. In the fall, it's coming to that time, like November. And 
at that time, in Eugene, it was a housing crunch and this is a really 
good story. We lived in a motel out on [Highway] 99, and we 
would run to get the paper, like we would run to wherever you 
could get the paper and tear the paper open and scan for places and 
run to  a payphone to start calling because we couldn't find 
housing.   
 It was so hard. And we finally found some terrible place over like 
on the outskirts of Springfield and we lived there for a little while. 
Then we met some people through a more communal type-
situation, the Growers Market. We joined like a social movement 
about creating a market and then my life began  in Eugene from 
that. That's when my life began here, because I was totally 
committed in my however naive I was to like doing something. I 
really liked the feeling of doing something different and providing 
for people. I was political, I did antiwar  work. And I still hold that, 
that whole feeling and understanding that I got from living in the 
commune and understanding the difference that it makes when 
you believe in people and want to create something different, stays 
with me. Now, I have done many things in my life because of that 
feeling that I know that you can change things by your action and 
in groups. So, we started Growers Market, which is still going, it's 
like forty-something years ago.  
Raiskin: Can you describe Growers Market?  
Detroy:  Now— initially, it was in the garage, our garage with Bill and Vicki 
Nelson and we just created a way for people to order vegetables 
and food on like a paper piece of paper that we would tally  cheese. 
And then it just grew into this big organization where people 
would  go out and purchase vegetables. Now it's in the Growers 
Market building, which we, the Market bought. I'm still a member 
there, but I don't go to meetings. But, and people can shop there for 
produce and staples. And it still goes today, where you can get a  
discount for working, for every half hour you get a little pumpkin 
and then you get a discount and the prices are phenomenal.  
Long:  What year did you found Growers Market?  
Detroy:  It was in like in that ‘73? I'd have to look that up in there, a couple 
of years of—  
Raiskin: How many people were the founders?  
Detroy:  There was like five or six of us. There's pictures. The Growers 
Market  has a historical— Vicki Nelson has historical photos and I 
have some of those photos of me, with very, very long hair and  
those like John Denver glasses, taking over the world, that kind of 
thing. So it was around that time that I was still partying quite a bit. 
And when I separated from Mitch, we were still— we were young, 
we were in our twenties and I got pregnant from sleeping around. 
Yeah. And I did not want to have a child. I was scared that the 
“piddidle”  out of me. I was at that time living in another communal 
situation.  
 I had broken up and I was in another communal situation with 
people that were in what's called, the group was called Medium 
Rare. And we were photographers and filmmakers like film, film, 
analog and we produced movies of events where we showed our 
films and photography at the WOW Hall. That was the time 
around when the WOW Hall  got started, like got purchased and all 
of that started. There were other things and I know there were 
other things happening in the community that I wasn't a part of,  
but that's where I was. And it was in that period of time, in that 
household, I was attending a consciousness raising group at 
somebody's house over in the East Eugene and around the 
university. It was around that time that I came to understand that I 
felt attracted to women, but it wasn't like I just woke up and 
thought that, it was different things that happened where I kind of 
was in and out and still sleeping with men and still like feeling 
attracted to women and making out with women.  
 I mean it was just like, like things happening. I was in my twenties 
and taking advantage of my youth and then I got pregnant, and 
something about that experience just like, “I'm done.” I am so done 
with sleeping with men. I just felt really yucky. The whole 
experience.  I was kind of not exerting much control in my behavior 
in parts of my life. I was still doing politics and stuff and Growers 
Market, and all of that. So, I attempted to sort of come out to some 
people. That was not a good experience, people rejected, some  
friends who are now lesbians rejected me, told me, no, no, no, we're 
not interested in you. But eventually I found other people.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a girlfriend at this time, or had you had any sexual 
relationships with women?  
Detroy:  No, nothing beyond kissing. No. No, no. Nothing below the neck. 
And I think shortly after that I got interested in Amazon Kung Fu 
and I became part of that. So I think that happened fairly soon 
around there. Because I remember the first person actually I was 
going to— Florence Buckley was the first person that I felt attracted  
to that was a lesbian that was not rejecting me. I remember her. I 
still have connection to her on Facebook. She lives in Philadelphia. 
And she was here a few like last summer or the summer before 
visiting other people. She might be somebody for you to contact. 
And then after Florence, I can start remembering the women that I 
had relationships with. I can kind of go: well, her, then her, I can do 
that. I can kind of do that now. Mostly the people that I was in 
relationships with or connected to  the things I was doing, which 
was martial arts and then whatever I was doing.  
 So those were the significant relationships that I can recall in that 
period of time that you're looking at a lot, in the ‘70s, people that— 
Victoria Shaw, Jackie Turell, Florence  Buckley, Pam Malheur. And 
then around that time Gertrude’s Café, I was part of that. I was part 
of a poetry group and we published— I would gladly give you 
some my poetry books and Muff, Linda Rose and what's Muff’s 
name now? I can't remember her name right now.  
Long:  Marilyn?  
Detroy:  Marilyn. Marilyn  was there. It was Mother  Kali’s. So, all of that 
started happening.  
Raiskin:  And what happened with your pregnancy?  
Detroy:  Abortion.  
Raiskin:  And how was that,  what year was that and what was that like for 
you?   
Detroy:  At the time it was a relief.  In retrospect, like everyone, not 
everyone, but many people,  I do have regret. As I'm older, I have 
regret. I didn't younger, but as I'm older, I think— but it's like, 
decisions that you make, that I make, I can know why I did them, 
but you still have feelings about it when you look back. And that's 
what it is. I still have feelings. I don't think it was wrong what I did. 
I don't think abortion is wrong. It's just I, at the time, the person I 
was, that's the decision she could make.  
Raiskin:  Do you think you could have been a mother at that time, when you 
decided or you knew that you couldn't?  
Detroy:  I had no idea of how to go about doing it. None.  It was blank hole, 
terrifying idea. I lived in a commune. I don't even remember what 
kind of job I had, like retail or something.  
Long:  Was abortion legal at the time?  
Detroy:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yeah. I went to a clinic.  
Long:  So this was 1973?  
Detroy: It could be, I'm sorry, I can't be more specific about dates, I'm not 
good with dates.  
Long:  Where was the commune that you lived at?  
Detroy:  Twelfth  and kind of near the fairgrounds. Twelfth  and Monroe like 
maybe a block in. I mean, I know which house it is. We called 
ourselves “Café des Poets.” It was so pretentious! But yeah, I'm still  
in contact with Tom Cook and Laurie Shaw. They live in New 
York, sometimes I see them, occasionally. They have a sister who 
lives here and children that are adults now. I don't know that I'm in 
touch with any— somebody recently died that was, but yeah.  
Long:  So as a commune, you all worked and then contributed your 
money to  the— 
Detroy:  We lived communally. We didn't share finances. We lived 
communally. We each had a room, we shared meals. We would 
gather and talk on Sundays. We did these events. We were very 
connected with the media part of it. That was our focus. And that's 
how I got started thinking about being a photographer and I had a 
camera and all of that. Yeah.   
Raiskin:  So this is when you were deciding that, Oh, I could be a lesbian.  
Detroy:  Well, I was attracted to a woman, Allison, who was living in that 
house with us. And I don't know that people in the group would 
call it a commune. That's my word. And from the CO group, 
worked up the nerve to say something to her. I remember just 
feeling like, just kind of internally sweating bullets as they say. I 
remember going into her room and she was like, no, no, no, I don't 
feel that way. And this woman now is the lesbian and has a child, 
with another woman and lives in San Francisco. So I was not off the 
mark. I was on the mark. I was just too early. So I knew what was 
happening, but she didn't go for it. So, yeah. Allison, yeah, I 
remember that. Good question.  It’s funny.   
Raiskin:  So now you were working, you were still at Growers Market.  
Detroy:  Yeah. Growers Market. And let's see, in the ‘70s, I worked for Head 
Start. I was a Head Start teacher, and then I was an administrator, 
worked in the health program, help run the health program.  
Raiskin:  Were able to use your Spanish in your work?  
Detroy:  No, I worked in Creswell. There was no immigrants here then, no. 
If there were, I wasn't  aware of it. And they weren't in our 
program. Is mostly very, very impoverished people living in 
trailers. Mostly in Creswell. Yeah. Yeah. There was a center at the— 
what used to be Holt adoption agency, used to be in Creswell. And 
then actually, I was— at that time I was living with Mitch still and 
his friend Tom, and we tried to get housing in Creswell and we 
could not get housing because we were three unrelated adults. We 
were rejected until we found like the upstairs of some house 
someplace. That was it before I came out.  
Raiskin:  So, you found it to be a conservative  place to live?  
Detroy:  Yes. Well, they won't rent to us. I mean they wouldn't rent to us. 
And that was the reason three unrelated adults. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. 
And then I moved back to Eugene and ran a center here over on 
Nineteenth, there's a building that I don't know what's in it now. 
It's near the Music School. It's like west of the music school. The 
Head Start center was in there. And then I worked in the office. I 
can't remember where that office was, but Gary Koyen, I can 
remember the people that worked there. Anyway, I worked there  
for a while and, I'm having trouble remembering what I did after. I 
worked at the Labor Education Research Center for a  while.  
 I was in the CETA Program, but I'd have to look at dates to 
remember when I did those different things. I think CETA  came 
before LERC, I'm not sure. And then I returned to— I lived with a 
woman and we moved to Marcola.  
Raiskin:  Were you partners with this woman? 
Detroy:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  All right. So it happened in there somewhere. 
Detroy:  Yes. There were, let's see. I think it was my first really partner 
relationship. Yes. And we moved to Marcola.  
Raiskin:  For farmland or  what? 
Detroy:  We had a house with a quarter acre and she was a police officer for 
the City of Eugene. I remember it was a really big deal because I 
pinned her badge on her at the ceremony. Like it was like lesbian 
doing it.  
Raiskin:  So she was out in the police department then?  
Detroy:  I don't know if “out” is the right  word. There's something in 
between.  
Raiskin:  Who were you pinning it on? Just a friend of hers. Yeah.  
Detroy:  I guess.   
Raiskin:  However it's interpreted.  
Detroy:  Yeah.  
Long:  Do you remember what year that was?  
Detroy:  Mid ‘70s, like ‘75, ’76. We were out there probably because— no, 
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It was eight. Let's see, when did I 
go to the UO? It was the ‘80s. I— back up. It was the ‘80s. It the ‘80s 
when we lived out there. Sorry. I had to backup from when I went 
to the UO and graduate program was in the late ‘80s, early ‘90s. 
And we lived in Marcola in the ‘80s. So I would say maybe ‘85, in 
there. Yeah, yeah. Now I'm oriented. Yes. Yeah, we lived out there. 
We were out in that community. Yeah. Fairly. And yet again, I'm in 
a co-op, helped put together a co-op out there.  
Raiskin:  What was it?  
Detroy:  Just neighbors buying food together and distributing it at a central 
location. People would go into town and buy and then bring it back 
and we'd split it up. Yeah. And I worked for the City of Springfield 
and commuted back and forth.  
Raiskin:  What did you do for them?  
Detroy:  I was an assistant to the risk manager. And also I helped install 
their phone system. Like that project got assigned to me. I 
worked— 
Raiskin:  Quite a distance from learning how to do the rotary.   
Detroy:  Yeah, yeah, yeah. I learned how to install phone systems and was 
the manager for that. And then, I got laid off from that job and the 
partner that I was with left me in the same week. And then after 
that I decided to go back to school and that's when I lived on my 
own out in Marcola and then moved back into Eugene eventually 
while I was in school.  
Raiskin:  What were you studying in school?  
Detroy:  The program I was in  was the independent studies program that I 
set up and my areas were botany, environmental science and 
design.  
Raiskin:  And why were you going back to school? What were you hoping to 
develop?  
Detroy:  Just something more suited to me. I mean, I'd had a lot of jobs that I 
did that utilized my great organizational skills, but they weren't 
really feeding me. They weren't giving me life. I was just— I was 
good at it, but I wasn't feeling joyful. So I was looking for— I was 
hoping to find more of something that felt better to me than the 
kind of work I was  doing. That's what I can remember. And I loved 
design, but what happened was not what I expected. I started 
taking classes in photography and I was gone, just gone. I was 
completely besotted and I worked in an optics lab, and during that 
time, I was pretty out at that time.  
 I can't remember if there was any politics during that time, I was 
studying a lot. And I was dating and I was living out off of Arcadia  
Harlow Road and going to school after I moved from Marcola and 
the house sold. Then I was dating the one person that I used to date 
was at the event, Maureen McCauley. During that period of time, 
yeah. Before I bought a house over on West— Yeah. Anyway, so I 
was in school and really, and it was then I think after that I set up 
my own photography business and then from that time on I either 
had my own business and worked part-time for someplace else, 
and after that, that's what I did for the rest of my life till now, work, 
have some kind of job and then I have my own business at the 
same time.  
Raiskin:  It's always been photography or your own business?  
Detroy:  It was photography until I had cancer, because I did analog. I've 
worked—I did photography for the City of Eugene. I had bunches 
of clients until digital happened and that digital took my business 
down pretty much. It was like overnight and  two things happened 
almost simultaneously. I had breast cancer diagnosis, that horror 
story and digital happened and those happened at the same time. 
When I came out of the breast cancer, digital had taken over the 
photography world and I had to find another way. And that's how 
I got started working in the arts.  
Raiskin: Let me ask you, when you when you had cancer and you were 
dealing with doctors a lot, how was your experience as a lesbian in 
the medical world?   
Detroy:  Fine. It was fine. For me when that scary of a thing happens is like, 
I'm not holding back. There's like, so what? It's nothing matters. 
You're just who you are. I didn't feel like I had any— no. I was who 
I am.  
Raiskin:  You were treated fine.  
Detroy:  Yeah. I was more concerned actually about getting good care. That 
was my like “take care of the cancer.” Like, that's the goal. And I 
didn't, I mean, that experience really in my medical treatment, it's 
like, I always say, I have these— these are my issues. I have 
anxiety, these are what have to be paid attention to. When I go to 
the dentist, when I have any procedure, I tell them these things, 
and I always say, “I'll have someone with me. She's not my 
partner.” But I usually say, I'd always say I'm a  lesbian, but if 
anything like that comes up, I'm like, I'm a lesbian. That's not going 
to, this form doesn't comply to me. So I'm just like, I don't hold  
back. That's done that. Any that resistance or any fear, I'm done 
with that.  
Raiskin:  So, digital took over and you couldn't follow that path because 
your art was different then?  
Detroy:  Well, because that was how I was supporting myself and I was a 
black and white darkroom printer. I printed black and white. I 
developed film.  It’s gone. It was now digital and I was angry. I 
said, I am never— I didn't want to buy digital equipment. I was just 
like, no, no, no. So I'm not sure how I got this idea, but I got an idea  
from somebody. The way to get into a new career is to volunteer, 
which is what I did. And that led me— I volunteered at Jacob's 
Gallery and like within two or three weeks I had a job there. It was 
really fast. Somebody left, blah, blah, blah. And, I was the designer 
curator there for ten years under the director as a contract 
employee.  
 And that  has been the way that I've gone somewhat. I worked at 
Lane on and off in a couple of departments, but it's the same kind 
of thing. I may have been an employee, but it was still a part time 
job. I still had contracting work that I did. I still do that now.  I still 
have— am I an employee any place here now? No, I'm not. All 
work I do is on contract now, and I'm on Social Security now.  
Raiskin:  Would you tell us about your artwork?  
Detroy:  Currently, which is ironic, because I was so angry about the digital 
part. As my current work is digital. I create work on iPad and 
iPhone and I have a series. I think I sent a notice  about that. Just 
going to open at Dotson's, like my reception next week and it's a 
focused on— I turn  the camera on myself. It's about woman aging, 
but it's about the many faces of women aging, but it's a blended 
imagery. So when you look at it, you always go like, “Oh, where's 
the face?” Then you see the face and it's quite unusual, but not 
unusual in the iPhone, iPad app world. But for Eugene,  nobody's 
doing this here, too much. There's another woman that does a little 
bit similar work to me.   
 I don't talk a lot about it, about being lesbian in the work. It doesn't 
really come up, but it doesn't mean I wouldn't talk about it. That's 
kind of how  I am in the outer world. Just I don't like— it's not what 
I lead with. That's what I’ll say. It's not how I lead with. I lead with 
being an artist, but the lesbian’s smooshed in there. But I don't lead 
with that. This is how I feel most comfortable. But I don't deny it. I 
don't not talk about it. I don't hide it.  
Raiskin:  In the earlier years, would you say that your lesbian identity was 
shored up by the kinds of institutions and activities you were doing 
with other women?  
Detroy:  I feel like in that time I led with that more. It was more like I'm a 
lesbian. That was more what was important to me at that time that I 
felt like, it was a new identity for me and it was exciting, and there 
were so many other women that were coming out at the same time 
that were in the group that you're interviewing, and so many places 
to go, and parties and gatherings and there was so much energy in 
that, that I felt very attracted to it and wanted to be part of it. 
Softball and Kung Fu and poetry and dancing, there was all these 
facets happening that were lesbian-identified or for lesbians or for 
women, and so it was a different kind of time.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think Eugene was the central point for lesbian 
community?  
Detroy:  I have no idea. I don't know. It feels like providence or something. I 
don't have any idea. Like what made all these people move here?  
Like I moved here, a lot of people moved here in the ‘70s from sort 
of some kind of migration of people, not just lesbians, but people 
that I know that were in Growers Market. All those people, like 
why did they come here? They did. And then it felt like all these 
people that were here came here and were. I can only guess that it's 
like a word of mouth kind of thing. Like, we didn't have Internet 
but people were telling their friends, “Oh, there's lots of lesbians 
here.” And people start hearing it and come. I'm guessing that part, 
I don't know.  
Long:  Were you aware of the lesbian movement in  southern Oregon?  
Detroy:  Yes. I was aware of it. It didn't drop— 
Long:  Did you go down there?  
Detroy:  No, I wasn't drawn to it. I was happy it was happening. I was 
happy to know about it. It was exciting. I knew lots of people that 
were there. I knew people that were there and they would come 
here. But no.  
Raiskin: Did you know anything about the photography workshops that 
were there?  
Detroy:  Yes, yes. And I was aware of what's her name?  
Long:  Ruth Mountaingrove . 
Detroy:  Yes. I was aware of her, there were many women that I have their 
books and—  
Long:  Tee Corinne. 
Detroy:  Yes. Completely aware of those things. Thank you for reminding 
me. But I wasn't drawn to do that kind of work. Now I would be, 
more, but then my focus was really— and I don't know if you know 
that I have like tons and tons of black and white photography from 
the those years that I was taking photographs. I have negatives 
from that whole 2 1/4 and 35 mm. I don't think I have any films that 
I made. I think they got lost, but I was more— it's was just a 
different focus for photography, but totally admiring and very like 
looking at the magazines and getting— thinking about it. Oh yeah, 
yeah. Drawn to it for sure. And women's music. I was in an Olivia 
rep for a while. I mean, it was like—  
Raiskin: Did you ever go on a cruise?  
Detroy:  No, no, no. But I did concerts where I had Meg  Christian come and 
knew her and Cassie, what's her last name? I want to say Curtis, 
but that's somebody else that lives here. A woman who’s a  senior. I 
mean, I would sponsor and do those concerts, sell records, house 
them, do all of that.  
Raiskin:  That was a very central part of the community as music.  
Detroy:  Yeah. I had all those records and sold the records and yeah, I still 
have— I don't have them all.  My record collection got flooded, it 
got damaged in a basement flood. I still have some on tape that I 
made. Baba Yaga. I mean all, there's so many. Alix Dobkin. Yes.   
Long:  What are your recollections of all of the ballot measures? 
Referendum 51, Ballot Measure 8, Ballot Measure 9.  
Detroy:  I did door-to-door work in Springfield. Painful. It was painful.  
Long:  Can you describe some of the interactions?  
Detroy:  People yelling at us. People throwing things at us. I was younger 
and whatever, how old I was, I still felt righteous and it was the 
right thing to do. I wore buttons, I marched, I did whatever was 
happening. I was doing it but at the same time— I think I was, I 
can't remember who I was partnered with at the time. This 
memory, I went to couples counseling. And  I remember I had 
nightmares. I was having nightmares.  
Raiskin: Well, a lot of people were very frightened at that time.  
Detroy:  I was frightened. There were periods— I don't remember what 
years the Riv Room happened, but I remember being afraid that 
someone was going to go by and shoot us. I just— I mean, it would 
go in my mind. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Well, some of the rhetoric was very violent.  
Detroy:  Yeah. Still is. I have had a couple incidences happen when I was 
traveling in Oregon, that I felt like it was dangerous and had to 
leave, that something bad could happen. I remember being with 
Jackie and it just felt wrong or bad. And I said, I think we have to 
get out of here. And another time when I was camping with some 
lesbian friends out in eastern Oregon out on the road, and I just  
was so afraid of these people that were following us. Bad things 
can happen like that in isolated situations.  
Raiskin:  And there were some murders that happened. I'm sure you heard 
about those and thought of them.  
Detroy:  Those are some early memories that particularly I think with Jackie 
that was happening when the hate stuff, like Lon Mabon  and 
they're still doing it over in Europe and Sweden or something. 
There's still freaking doing it even though we have told them to get 
the hell out of here. But anyway, it's painful. It's just fricking 
painful. The hate that people have. It's confusing to me. It's 
confusing. My family, my mom, my youngest— my middle sister, 
they still— my mom was, to her deathbed, still— not on her 
deathbed, but still, through the years of talking to her, still was 
holding onto this— like, what did I do? Like she still could not, of 
all the times  I've sent her literature and sent her books and had 
conversations. I finally— and this is something, I don't know, if this 
is a word of advice. I chose at a certain point to stop trying, just to 
go with like, do the best you can, at being kind to people and just 
stop trying to get them to get on board with who you are. How 
many years can you do that? If they're not going there, they're not 
going there.  
Raiskin:  That can be a relief.  
Detroy:  There's a deep sadness about it, but it's also was like, this is what  I 
can do. I can be friendly and cordial. I can be an adult. I can let go  
of all the meanness that's been put on me and just come to this 
place. And that's partly— I mean, my mom and my dad died in the 
last couple of years and I may have mentioned this, that my 
youngest sister died less than a year ago and she was the person 
that accepted me, no questions asked. So, that was a painful loss for 
me. And she has an adopted child who now lives with her father, 
adopted from China and I do have connection with her. And it's an 
interesting dynamic for me as a person in a family. They're all 
deeply Christian religious people, Jesus people.  
 I know people can get to this place, but I want to salvage what I can 
have with them. I'm not going to confront them anymore. I  spent so 
many years confronting and trying get them over to love me for 
who I am kind-of-thing. And people have different opinions. But 
for me, that's where I have to be. If I want to  be connected to these 
people—this is like the child of my dead sister—I want to be 
connected with her. I have to go somewhat on their terms.  
Raiskin:  How old is she?  
Detroy:  Sixteen. Yeah. So, and in the world now, I don't know if you 
want— it's still important to me to be a lesbian. It's still very 
important to me. My comfort zone for socializing is with women 
that are lesbians kind of in my age bracket, not all of them are in 
my age bracket, but close. That's the most comfortable. Like my 
closest friends are all lesbians. They're in their ‘60s, early ‘70s. I 
have a couple of  friends that are younger but that we call ourselves  
lesbians and that's what we are, and that's where I'm most 
comfortable. I mean, I really like that place.  
Raiskin:  How do you stay connected and find each other, or just stayed 
friends all these years?  
Detroy:  Well, some of it has been, I would think just people that I know 
from social connections or that I'm not sure how I know, like, Laura 
and Ellen. Some people I get to know through like there's a kind of 
floundering older women's older lesbian group meetup. And I met 
one person that I'm sort of social friends with and we just get 
together. We go to the pool, we go hiking, we go walking. I don't 
know exactly how to answer, but we feed the friendship. We feed 
the friendship. And I reach out to other people. I'm trying to get to 
be friends with a couple of new people now, because I'm single and 
I want to have a mixture of people to be connected to. I remember a 
couple of weeks ago, I was at Art in the City, downtown, and I sat 
down at a table and at the table there was Harriet and Yona, a 
woman named Jerri and a woman named Carol.  
 And we were all sitting there, we were just talking and after I got 
up I thought this is what I like. It's sort of like we speak a common 
language, we speak a common kind of understanding. Some of us 
have lived similar ways. We're sort of in the same age group. We 
have some similar things that have happened in our history. That's 
what I mean. And I texted all of them, and I said, we must all— 
wouldn't it be great? Maybe we could  all get together again 
sometime. And that's how this seed of something can happen. It  
might not have been for that, but that's how I started the Lez Dance 
thing, is I'm like out with some people and I'm partner dancing and 
I'm thinking, I want this, I want this.  
Raiskin: It's interesting, when you've watched and you've been able to make 
it. 
Detroy:  I do.  
Raiskin: Some way you're organizationally talented at that.  
Detroy:  I do. I do that and that's how I am doing in my art. Like, I want that 
art to be seen. I want people to understand it. I feel like it's 
important. And I just— I get ideas that don't pan out. But yeah, 
that's how I have felt over time and sometimes people are already 
doing it. I'm like, Oh great. I don't have to organize  that one. But 
yeah.  Yeah, that's true.  
Raiskin: Well, you lived through a really incredible time here in and a lot of 
people still live here, I wonder if you can see traces of— not even 
traces, but the influence that your work in community had on 
Eugene as it exists now.  
Detroy:  Well, I think that people seeing other organizations happen that 
were born of someone's seeing something that's needed, when they 
see that they're empowered to think, Oh, I could do that. So, I don't 
know of a specific instance, but I'm guessing that, example or 
modeling, influences others. And I think that's an extremely 
important role, is to be a model of behavior. A model of  
organization. Just behavior alone is enough in the world. Just in 
that. And under behavior is like how do you connect with people? 
How do you connect with the goodness of people? How do you 
create good for others? How do you make it happen? And that to 
me, is the way that other people can see that, “Oh, they did that out 
of nothing.” I mean I sometimes talk with Vicki Nelson and I said, 
sometimes I wonder like why? How did we ever just like, we just 
believed things were possible and I think that kind of feeling is 
something sometimes people don't have in a world today that feels 
so hard for us and  culture, that we have to reach  beyond that and 
see that things are possible. And a lot of people do that, I mean this 
may be an odd example, but the people whose children were 
murdered in those mass shootings, like they have to reach beyond 
the terrible experience that they had and see  that something is 
possible. I mean, that's a pretty dramatic example but— 
Raiskin: I just thinking that on a much less intense level, that somebody was 
talking in an interview about a tool library that existed. And how 
great that tool library was. And  a few years ago, a new tool library 
was built over in the Friendly neighborhood. That's really great. 
And they  know the history of what existed before and so sort of 
already had a way of conceptualizing a new tool library.  
Detroy:  And that can be true with anything. I mean, I go to the Whiteaker 
community council meetings and there are a lot of people, young 
people in those meetings. They believe things are possible.  
Raiskin: They know your history? They know what's happened?   
Detroy:  Sometimes, I don't talk a  lot in that meeting. I just like to know 
what's going on and voice my opinion about some things that I 
don't care for. But, I can see where that idea— people look and say, 
Oh, people did, like we used to do Neighborhood Watch. Like we 
would walk, I was part of a neighborhood watch. We'd walk 
around neighborhoods and stuff and somebody mentioned it and I 
said, well we used to do that. We used to do that. We used to meet 
and walk around and pick up needles and make ourselves present. 
And so I think that's a good modeling behavior.  
Raiskin: When you think about aging in Eugene, is there an ideal living 
situation that you would like to see?  
Detroy:  Well, I wonder about this because I own a house and I live on my 
own and it's progressively more difficult to maintain a home as one 
ages. And I think, well, I lived in communal situations before. 
Maybe that's where I'll go. I think, well that would be a natural 
kind of step to be in some place where there's other people, I've 
lived a lot of years alone, so it would be a little bit of a challenge. 
But given the right people the concept seems right for me to be 
some place where like-minded  people— you like to commiserate 
and talk about the past, but I still, I don't want to give up like 
action, that we do things together in some way. It could be 
gardening, whatever, but something that is along the lines of ways 
to live and connect at the same time. I mean, I still do that in my 
neighborhood, but I live alone.   
Raiskin: Yeah. Thinking about your time in Eugene, can you think of what 
brought you the most joy?  
Detroy:  Probably the most joy. I would say in terms of an  org— the Lez 
Dance time was so fun because I was doing something I really 
loved and I got other people interested, and that was a really great 
time. And something that's related but not exactly is, living in the 
West is so different than living in the Midwest. The beauty of the 
state astounds me, and moving here allows me to be part of that. 
It's so gorgeous here. That may not be what you're looking for, but 
that's why, I just, places I go with my friend Ellen when we go 
hiking. She's Ellen Rifkin. I mean, we can just go to these gorgeous 
places. We just drive and we're there, just mountains and rivers 
and it's so beautiful, and so that allows me to be, and  her, there's a 
recharge. There's a way that I can like I shed the harshness and like 
be connected back to— if you say earth water, whatever, the way 
that things are, to come back and keep going. I would say those 
two things.  
Long: Had you talked about Lez Dance in any detail? You started this— 
Detroy:  Did I talk about it?  
Long: Yes. I don't think you've talked about it in any— can you tell us 
about that?  
Detroy:  Well, I had a very close friend, Kathy Maedl, also a lesbian friend of 
mine. We were taking dance lessons together. We were not 
partners, but we made a commitment to take lessons. I would think  
this was in, I'd have to look in the paperwork, but I don't know 
how long ago she died. But we were taking lessons and I really— 
after cancer, I committed myself to dancing. I thought, I almost 
died. What do I want to do? And that's my commitment, was to 
dance. And so I started doing a lot more, going dancing more. And 
then with Kathy, we were taking ballroom dancing and there were 
a lot of women that were doing ballroom. Sandra and Linda, there 
were couples, but not all couples. Some single woman. My best 
friend Ellen, Laura is a ballroom dancer. And all of that got started 
through a small group. Harriet also started a little group before Lez 
Dance. 
 And it's lesbians wanting to dance with other lesbians in partner 
dancing. It's like, we want to do this. We like doing it, we want to 
do more. And that was the motivation. I like it. I want to do more, I 
want to do it with my group. And so I think a few of us met at 
maybe Kathy's house, LaRosa, myself, Maura  Scanlon. I can't 
remember who else was in that little group. And then that went on 
for a while. We hired teachers and all of us became clear about— 
the thing that was really great about it, I mean there were a lot of 
great things, dancing with lesbians in partner dancing is 
wonderful. It's just wonderful. And so we did a lot of that out in 
the world and then in class. But we also started going to classes 
with people that were not predominant, were mostly heterosexual 
and they weren't clued in about how to talk about the partners.   
 Because they were all used to seeing the girl, the boy, the man and 
the woman. So we pushed on that everywhere we went. Lead and 
follow, lead and follow. Those are the words you use, because 
that's really what it is. So then whoever is in that role can be any 
person of any make or persuasion. It doesn't matter who that 
person is. So that was a significant force I think. And still is, like 
when I go out dancing sometimes and sometimes I'm the lead, 
sometimes I'm the follow. And I think it's important for people to 
see that women can do either, can be an either role. We had some 
pushback in some classes. People were mean and we had to call— 
still, it goes on. There were some of us that had to take the teacher 
aside and pointedly said, if you want us in your class, you need to 
have us in your class, please adjust the language. Please adjust the 
language, because Kathy was the lead. She's not a man. She's not a 
boy. She's a lead.  
Long:  What  would the teacher say? Like, “Men, start leading?” 
Raiskin:  “Men, right foot forward?”  
Detroy:  If you have two lines of dancers, you've got the leads and the 
follows, and they'd say, men take the lady by the hand. It's like, no, 
“Lead take the follow by the hand.” The language was not 
appropriate, in my world. And so then we would do push back on 
that. And sometimes people were uncomfortable, like they didn't 
want to switch, they're comfortable. That happens all the time with 
language, now, with trans people, you don't want to switch, you 
don't want to change your habit. But yeah, we did that a lot and  
then we just had a lot of fun because we could go places and we 
had a little group that could go and when there was dancing at 
Kowloon’s for a while, the Lips Dance group, we could go, we 
would go early and ask them to play the music. So we would have 
the whole dance floor and we could do partner dancing on that 
great dance floor.  
 And, it's not happening right now, because some of us are aging 
and it's harder. It's harder for me to be a partner dancer. I can do it 
for a while, but not a long time  like I used to. But there's a group 
called Track Town Swing. And those young people, they have 
dances at the Vets Club and you can be lead or follow. There's no 
blinking an eye. There’s no blinking an eye. You can do what you 
want. And sometimes a group of us will go to that, because it's a 
safety zone because nobody's doing “boy and girl.” They're going 
“lead and follow” “lead and follow.” So that was fun. It was fun. It 
was a good contribution to the dance world.  
Long:  Excuse me, what were those years? For Lez Dance. 
Detroy:  I don't know. I'd have to look in the paperwork. Early 2000s, 
because my cancer treatment was over in ‘97. Took me a couple of 
years to get things  together. So I would say in the early 2000s. Yeah. 
Thanks for asking that. It was a great contribution. There were no 
lesbian teachers, so we had to teach all our teachers how to talk to 
us.   
Raiskin: See, I think that's a great example of what I was asking before about 
the influence of your work. It's made an influence on what's 
happening at the Vets Club and for all the trans kids who are 
dancing and they couldn't use that language either, but now you've 
fixed it.  
Detroy:  We contributed a section to it,  and the Vets Club is actually a place 
that a lot of lesbians go. It's an interesting— not just the upstairs 
class, but the downstairs. A lot of older lesbians go sometimes as 
groups. And it's really a place that nobody messes with you there. 
It's an interesting combination of people, but it's very okay. It's very 
okay. There's something about the blues community dancing in 
that particular venue, that it works. It works good. I feel very safe 
there. So I haven't been in a while, but I feel very safe. Yeah.  
Raiskin: On a really unrelated topic, I was wondering when you were 
talking earlier about your proficiency with Spanish, whether you 
participated in— there was a time when Eugene was a sanctuary 
city, more Guatemalan refugees and through, no— 
Detroy:  No, no. I have a close friend who married her girlfriend and lives in 
Salem, Yolanda. And for a while I had conversation, we would 
speak, but I am not speaking right now. I don't have a place. It's not 
a high on my list right now, but I have a draw to things Spanish, 
particularly, just every once in a while something will come up. My 
friend Adrienne is traveling to Guatemala and she's learning 
Spanish and I speak with her a little bit, text in Spanish. I have my  
phone so I can switch back and forth to force myself to use it a little 
bit. I can get a little intimidated by native speakers.  
Raiskin: Sure. Yeah. Was there something we didn't touch on? Some topic 
that you— 
Detroy:  Mind  if I just look here for a moment, see if there's anything. Did 
you— I'm assuming that you do have all the names of the different 
bars because that was really a scene  that I participated in all the 
different— 
Raiskin: Just tell us— 
Detroy:  Well, I can't remember all the names of them, but Riviera Room, 
Perry's, I think that was downstairs. There was one at the Eugene 
Hotel, that I think maybe, did Terry Bean do that? There was one 
upstairs in Eugene Hotel for a while. It was a great place. It didn't 
last very long. There was one that was in the building that is now 
the Oregon Social Learning Center. It was a lit up floor. It was very 
cool. If I talk to people, I could get the names and then the one that 
was at the U of O. That was one of the last ones too, over behind 
where Hirons is.  
Raiksin: Oh, the Neighbors that was in the McDonald's.  
Detroy:  Yes, Neighbors. Those are the ones that I know of. And then of 
course the newer renditions.  
Raiskin: And now they're starting the new Spectrum. So that'll be 
interesting.   
Detroy:  But all of those were very much, were for me a place to go to be 
with friends. And I think an important, although, a lot of people 
have stopped drinking as they age, but still it was the place that a 
lot of people went to be with other lesbians. I mean, we went there 
to be with them  and dance and socialize, and a lot of ideas came 
from hanging out in those places. And I think that it could be that 
the cafe and Gertrude's Café, and the other things are in somewhat 
a response to taking things out of that alcohol venues that in my 
early  years, that was what was there, the Riviera Room , going to 
the bars. And that's the place to dance. And I like to dance.  
Raiskin: That's been the through line for you?  
Detroy:  Yeah, I would go to a place that dances. The problem with the bar 
right now, that new bar  that has concrete floors, it's really hard on 
your back. But the places that had nice wooden floors, yeah.  
Raiskin: Maybe the new place will.  
Detroy:  I mean, but they'll have a false, those like false floors make it really 
good for the people  that are aging. But yeah, I would say that that 
would be, oops, sorry. I'm trying not to do the microphone thing. 
That was something that I wanted to— I think it's important. Let's 
see. I think that's, I believe that's it.  
Raiskin: We've been asking people who have been here for a long time and 
been lesbians for a long time and to have such a rich life experience. 
If you have any advice for young person who might be watching 
this video at some point soon.   
Detroy:  The thing that pops in my head is, life can feel very dramatic. And I 
would say that, if it were for me to be able to do things over again 
or kind of give advice to myself, is to learn how to take your 
attention off drama. There's so much life to be lived, that focusing 
on who's going with who and  like the drama and finding, pulling 
yourself back from that if at all possible and figuring out what your 
place is. That would be what I would say. Like, if you can do that, I 
mean, it's a skill. It's a skill that has to be learned, how to take 
yourself out of drama.  
 But I think— this is my opinion. As Americans, we can be addicted 
to drama. Our attention is pulled constantly into things that are not 
serving us, as human beings. And the more we can learn to keep 
our attention on what's good for us and to  honor what our goals 
are, the better our lives are going to be. Because ultimately like you 
will know what more— what you want. If you're not going 
towards something that's [gestures circling], doing this, that would 
be— that's something that took me a while to understand how to 
do that, and have fun. Dance more, have fun, that's what I'd say.  
Raiskin: Thank you very much.  
Detroy:  You're welcome. Okay.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  