 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History 
Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives. This is an oral history interview with 
Karen McPherson on August 30, 2018, taking place in the 
University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio in the Center 
for Media and Educational Technologies. The interviewers are 
Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ 
Special Collections and University Archives, and Professor 
Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, Gender, 
and Sexuality Studies. Karen, please let us know if you agree 
to be recorded for this project, and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available 
your recorded and transcribed interview.   
McPherson:  I do.  
Long:  Thank you very much. Let's just start with a basic question. 
Can you please tell us when and where you were born, where 
you grew up, and something about your early background?  
McPherson:  I was born in Boston in 1950. March 7, 1950. My parents had 
met in graduate school, and my father was teaching at 
Wellesley, maybe? I was their first child. We lived there for 
two years, and moved to Northampton, where my father was 
teaching at Smith, and my brother was born. And when I was 
five, my father hated academia and wanted to be a writer, and 
was writing novels. And we moved to a farmhouse in 
northwestern Connecticut, where he was going to be a famous 
writer. And we lived there until my parents decided that they 
couldn't support us, and my mother went to teacher's college, 
and became an  elementary school teacher. She was the 
breadwinner, and my father was the writer at home. We lived 
first in Bantam, Connecticut, and then we moved to 
Marbledale, and I lived in Marbledale until I graduated from 
high school.  
Raiskin:  Where's Marbledale?  
McPherson:  It's between New Milford and the northwest corner of 
Connecticut. Really rural Connecticut. The high school I went 
to was the second-smallest high school in Connecticut, so 
there were about twenty  kids in the class. And I was pretty  
miserable. And when I was a senior I transferred from the 
public high school to Wykeham Rise School, which was a 
private girl's school in the town, but I was a day student.  
Raiskin:  Why were you miserable?  
McPherson:  Partly I was younger than everybody because I had started 
kindergarten early in Massachusetts, so when we came to 
Connecticut, I went into first grade at the age of five. And then 
by the time we were in third grade, I was not only the 
youngest in the class, but I was also the tallest girl. I just was 
not really comfortable socially, and then I was just a kind of a 
histrionic teenager. So high school was a struggle. And when I 
transferred to the private school, it was an art school, so you 
majored in an art, and it was very— It was like a hothouse 
of— And of course there were all these girls who were living 
in these dormitories together, and so it was really intense. And 
I had very— 
 When I was in eighth grade, my family became  friends with a 
couple that lived in a barn nearby, and he was a filmmaker 
and she was a painter, and I fell madly in love with both of 
them, and my parents fell madly in love with both of them, 
and it was this really intense, artistic, intellectual, leftist 
political thing, and Marilyn, the painter, taught at the school. 
Actually they both ended up teaching at the school.  
Raiskin:  That you went to?   
McPherson:  That I went to as a senior. And I made some very, very close 
women friends that I, you know, I would— Gabby  and I 
would send each other love letters all day in the library. It was 
kind of unhealthy. I mean it felt kind of unhealthy, and at the 
end of my senior year, I went and spend the summer with a 
family— You know, family friends in Cleveland, and 
everybody sort of felt it was good to get me out of that 
situation.  
Raiskin:  Were you thinking about your sexuality at that time?  
McPherson:  You know, your questions about coming out and stuff were so 
strange for me because I think my family never made a big 
deal about sexuality. I think I assumed I was straight if I had 
thought about it, if somebody had asked me. But I was clearly 
emotionally drawn to both men and women all the way 
through. We had family friends like my parents’ old friend Pat 
was a lesbian  and would come with her lovers and stay at the 
house, so there were different kinds of people coming through 
and nothing was really made of it. It wasn't really talked 
about.  
Raiskin:  What year was this?  
McPherson:  I graduated from  high school in '67. Through the '60s, and— it 
was also we were going through the '60s and we were 
protesting the war, and we were doing some civil rights stuff 
in the local town, and you know, so my parents were pretty  
much leftist intellectuals. But I was also— I went off to college, 
still not only just a virgin, but never having kissed anybody. 
I'd had this intense emotional thing where I was you know, 
sort of in my mind and in my diaries and kind of angst and 
sensuality, but nothing. I arrived— I went to Reed College 
partly because I wanted to get as far away from Connecticut 
as possible. I'd never been west of the Mississippi, so I flew 
out to college never having seen the West Coast at all.  
Raiskin:  Why did you want to get so far away?  
McPherson:  I think the high school, especially at the very end of it was so 
intense, and the thing with Peter and Marilyn, the couple— 
and I'm still close friends with Marilyn— was really 
complicated for me, and I didn't know what to do with it. I 
was totally wrapped up in them as a couple. I mean I looked 
back through my journals and at various times I was in love 
with couples. And they were difficult, and it was a difficult 
kind of configuration with my family because they were the 
intermediate generation between me and my brother and my  
parents, and we were all kind of dancing around each other. I 
was ready to have this fresh start.  
 I applied to different schools. I got into Reed, and then I 
decided to go to Reed, and so I arrived in Portland in the fall 
of '67, and I met Garrick, the— well, I had two roommates, 
and roommate Janice was already seeing somebody that was 
an entering freshman that she'd met down in Palo Alto, so  
they were both Janice and Mimi, my two roommates, were 
much more outgoing than I was, and kind of sort of opened 
up the world, and I met Garrick, who was a, I don't  know, 
roommate of somebody. I guess he was interested in me. 
Three weeks into the year we went out walking one night, and 
ended up in the Reed College amphitheater and kissed, which 
was this huge event for me. It was like “Oh my God.” 
 Just to explain how huge that was, he and I were then together 
until I was twenty-five. So, it wasn't without ups and downs 
and ins and outs, but so I was at Reed '67, '68 through 
December of '68, and then we were so— let’s see. It was either 
October or November of my freshman year, we went to an 
SDS meeting, and they were looking for people who hadn't 
yet been arrested protesting the war, so Garrick and I and 
Janice and a couple of other of our friends said that we would 
be willing to go down and chain ourselves to the Selective 
Service. Which we did, and got arrested. Everybody else was 
eighteen  and I was seventeen, so I was taken off to juvie.  
Raiskin:  What was that like? Were you scared?  
McPherson:  No, we were all very excited about the whole thing. I mean it 
was a little strange because when they took me, I mean it 
wasn't like they locked me in a jail, they took me into this 
room and somebody came in and talked to me very earnestly 
about why I was protesting, and I was very earnest about why 
I was doing it, and then the following spring when I actually  
came to trial, this guy was one of the witnesses against me, but 
the lawyer was able to pull some strings and get it expunged 
from my record. We did that, so we were kind of involved 
with that.  
 And then I smoked marijuana for the first time, and we were 
doing, you know, we'd spend the weekends smoking 
marijuana, and by the time it was fall of '68, we were 
hitchhiking down to San Francisco to see Jefferson Airplane, 
and you know, Janis Joplin. December of '68 I took LSD for the 
first time. January of '69 I dropped out of college. Garrick's 
parents were nonviolent anarchist revolutionary theater 
people. They started The Living Theater.  
 They were touring the States, and they came through Reed 
College after which a half of the freshman and sophomore 
class dropped out. And a lot of them followed the theater at 
that point.  
Raiskin:  Oh, wow.  
McPherson:  Garrick stayed in. He was— he was kind of back and forth 
between the influence of his parents and the influence of his 
grandmother who had actually brought him up after his 
parents went to Europe. He stayed in for another year after 
that, but I had dropped out, and we were still living in 
Portland. We opened a free store and did some “Be-ins” and 
things and—  
Raiskin:  Can you describe first of all what Portland was like then, and 
what a “Be-in” is, and what a free store is?  
McPherson:  There were several houses of lots of people in communal 
living situations that we were involved with. We had a house 
that we got with three friends that we called Temple House, 
and we opened it up as a sort of a place for wayfarers, so 
people who were— There were a lot of people hitchhiking up 
and down the west coast at that point, so people would come 
and we'd let them stay over in our house. We found a little 
store front and just called it a free store, and put stuff in it and 
gave it away. We had some kind of “Be-in”  on top of Mount 
Tabor that I remember.  
Raiskin:  What's a “Be-in”? 
McPherson:  I don't know. It made sense at the time. You'd go and you're 
there. You probably sing and dance and chant. A lot of it was 
kind of spiritual, you know. There were a bunch of people 
who were seeing various gurus and things, and I wasn't really 
into that, but I was definitely sort of channeling a kind of a 
general spiritual discourse.  
Raiskin:  Were you raised with any religion or spiritual—  
McPherson:  My parents I think knew that they wanted us to have some 
exposure to religion, so when I  can remember when I was in 
first and second grade when we lived in Bantam, they would 
drop me and probably my brother, but I'm not sure, off at the  
local— I don't even know what kind of church it was, and 
then they'd go home and read the Sunday Times, and  then 
come pick me  up. I went to Sunday school. Their parents, my 
grandparents' generation, my paternal grandmother was a 
Quaker, but her family, that whole family was some form of 
Christian missionary stuff, and there were Christian 
missionaries on my mother's side too, and I think my parents 
were in the generation that kind of rejected all that in favor of 
reason or something.  
 At a certain point when I was growing up, we lived down the 
street from the— We lived across from the Episcopal church, 
and down the street from the Episcopal minister, and the 
Episcopal minister ran a Great Books group that my parents 
went to, and they really liked him, but they couldn't abide the 
Episcopal church, so we actually— They for a couple of years 
had us all going as a  family to the Congregational church, but 
then they really couldn't stand the minister, so they stopped 
doing that. So, not really.  
Raiskin:  What was the spirituality that attracted you when you were in 
Portland?  
McPherson:  I think it was partly a sense of sort of life force and communal 
energy and meditation. Yoga. Eating healthy, brown rice, you 
know. There was a lot of that. It was kind of like when the 
Beatles went to India, because that whole influence was 
starting to permeate the community, so that was  a big piece of  
it. Probably associated with the drugs, too, because we were 
taking LSD as a way to open our minds and get in touch with 
the universe.  
Raiskin:  And how was that experience for you?  
McPherson:  Scary at first, but it became part of what we did for a while, 
and you know, I look back and I see myself trying to adapt to 
the things that I was doing and convincing myself that they 
were what I wanted to be doing, and then later I looked back 
and thought did I really want to be doing them, so I'm not  
sure. We certainly— I certainly felt like it opened my mind in 
important ways.  
Long:  How would you get those drugs?  
McPherson:  Everybody had them. When Garrick and I went to Europe in 
the summer of 1969, so that was between the first and— No, in 
summer of  '68. No, summer of '69. It was between— I'd 
already dropped out of college. He was still in college. And 
we actually ended up in Morocco, and we met Ronny Laing, 
R. D. Laing, and he gave us some great LSD because it was all 
connected with the theater. By the time we came back to 
Oregon at that point, we were pretty much into the drug 
culture as part of what we were doing. I don't think I was ever 
as comfortable with it as some of the people I was living with 
and around, and when I sort of moved on to other  circles after 
that, I let it go pretty easily.   
Raiskin:  What was R. D. Laing like?  
McPherson:  He was a riot. He was with his wife, I guess, and a little baby, 
and he was very funny, and actually we— They came to 
Morocco when we were in Morocco with The Living Theater, 
and then when we were— We had taken a charter flight to go 
to Europe and back because it was really cheap for students, 
and when we came back to London, because it was a charter 
flight, London-New York, when we came back to London, we 
went to  visit him because I think Garrick wanted to get 
some— Or give some— Something about LSD anyway, so we 
went. And he said "When's your flight," and we said, and it 
turned out that we thought we were going out from one 
airport, and we actually were supposed to be leaving from the 
other airport, and he took us in his little car. He drove on the 
sidewalks to try to get us to this other airport. Of course we 
got there and we saw the plane taking off, so we missed it. At 
which point, we called Garrick's grandmother and said "We're 
stuck in Europe. We have no money. We're going to stay 
here." And she was very angry, but she sent us money for a 
ticket so that we would come home, so we went home.  
Raiskin:  And can you tell us— could  you describe what The Living 
Theater was?  
McPherson:  The Living Theater. Julian Beck and Judith Malina and their 
whole crew started in New York. They did a lot of sort of 
experimental and political and socially-conscious stuff. When  
Garrick was growing up, they were in New York for the first 
bunch of years, and then—  
Raiskin:  You mean they did performances that were— 
McPherson:  —they had a theater in the lower, somewhere in the lower east 
side, I think, and they lived up on West End Avenue. They 
had an apartment on West End Avenue and were in with all 
the beat, the poets, and the theater people, and the political 
people, and stuff. He grew up sort of surrounded by that, and 
then the government was really— Boy, I'm really 
oversimplifying this, but the government was really 
threatened by them and trying to get them out, and actually 
both Julian and Judith ended up in jail at one point for tax 
evasion or something, and then finally they said "We can't do 
this here anymore." And I don't remember what year it was, 
but they took the whole theater to Europe and they spent 
probably the time when Garrick was from— It was at least 
junior high and high school, he stayed in New York and lived 
with his grandmother, or his grandparents, and then his 
grandfather  died, and his parents were traveling around 
Europe with The Living Theater.  
Raiskin:  And what were the performances?  
McPherson:  When they came back to the States to tour, they were doing 
one thing called Mysteries and Smaller Pieces, and they were 
doing a huge thing called Paradise Now. They had something,  
maybe that was earlier, called The Brig. A lot of running, like, 
spectacle kind of things, and challenging the audience, or 
inviting the audience. The Paradise Now  usually ended up with 
a whole bunch of people without their clothes on  writhing  
around on stage. I feel embarrassed to be describing it.  
Raiskin:  What was the political import of it? What was the purpose of 
it? 
McPherson:  The purpose was to create a peaceful nonviolent anarchist 
revolution. They were definitely pacifists.  They were 
definitely anarchists. And they, you know, I can remember 
one of the plays had all these refrains that the actors would go 
through the audience and they would say things like "I am not 
allowed to travel without a passport," you know. And the fact 
that I'm thinking now as I think back, to what's happening 
now, that back then in, you know, 1960 whatever, one of their 
things was "I am not allowed to travel without a passport." 
You know, it's like that, so. It was interesting.  
Raiskin:  And what was your feeling about The Theater, and about that 
whole world?  
McPherson:  I was totally taken with it, and I loved it. I was a little— I was 
always— felt Garrick's hurt, that they somehow— that their 
mission was more important than their son. Because there was  
some— You know, he absolutely idolized them, and he would 
always sort of look for how they would feel about what we  
were doing, and whether we were living up to those ideals, 
and I sort of felt like the parenting piece of it had been 
secondary.  
Raiskin:  And how was your relationship with him?  
McPherson:  It was— Wow. It was good. It was sometimes rocky. We sort 
of— I mean, if you figure that I was seventeen  and I jumped 
into this relationship, and I'd never had another relationship, 
and then we're going through all of this stuff, and it's like free 
love, and you know. He would go off, and then he'd get 
involved with somebody else, and then I'd be a total wreck 
and jealous and freaked out. And then we'd get into sort of 
relationships with the two of us and  another couple, or him 
and me and some other woman, and you know. I mean it was 
like that sort of— sexually, it was complicated because part of 
me was— We're all, you know, here, and isn't this beautiful, 
and aren’t  bodies beautiful, and aren’t we all free and 
liberated, and part of me was clearly looking for a long-term  
relationship that made sense to me according to whatever 
paradigm I had already internalized, and some of it was 
internalized from romantic notions in reading and movies and 
things like  that.  
Raiskin:  What was your major when you were at Reed?   
McPherson:  Well, you know, you didn't have to major as a freshman, so I 
took Victorian literature, and Russian— and at the very end I 
was starting to take French before I dropped out.  
Raiskin:  So you had literary sensibilities . 
McPherson:  I did. I took ceramics, which I— you never got grades. I got 
the grades later when I applied to U of O and realized that I'd 
done all right, but I hadn't done stellarly. And I did most 
poorly in ceramics, which pissed me off, because I never even 
saw a teacher in there. Yeah, I mean there were— it was a kind 
of a missed opportunity because it was an exciting place 
academically, too, but I was not in the position to really 
benefit from that. I was really preoccupied  with other things at 
the time.  
Raiskin:  So you left Reed.  
McPherson:  So we— Garrick turned— When he was— When he turned 
twenty-one, he inherited twenty  thousand dollars from his 
grandfather's estate or whatever, and we were living in 
Portland and doing all of the counterculture stuff in Portland, 
and we decided we wanted to buy some land and start a 
commune with this group of friends. So in, let's see, '70, '70? 
It's really— Yeah, May 1970 we found eighty  acres of land 
outside of Drain, Oregon, down the Smith River Road, with a 
river through the bottom— the road ran through it. The huge 
bottom field, really fertile field. River running through the  
bottom, then a hillside and forest all the way up to the ridge. 
And an orchard, and a spring, and a house, and a little barn. 
We were able to buy it for $17,500, cash.  
 We moved there with about ten friends. And that fall I got 
pregnant. I was trying to. I got pregnant. And we lived 
through that first winter, mostly we were building a couple of 
geodesic domes, and an A-frame, but a lot of us were living in 
the main house, on the upstairs of the main house, which was 
a really small cabiny kind of house. We got rid of the 
electricity because we didn't want to be on the grid. Dug 
outhouses. A two-seater outhouse. A root cellar, put in a root 
cellar. We were doing the whole back-to-the-land thing, and 
you know, reading Rodale and whatever, and you know, 
Mother Earth News. 
 Small group through that winter. I was blissfully pregnant. 
We had a friend who— I don't remember when we met her. 
We met her through some festival up in Bellingham I think, 
Terry, and she moved to the farm with us, and she and I were 
really close. She and Garrick and I had one sort of corner of 
the upstairs that we had blocked off as a kind of a little place, 
and she had her bed and we had our bed. She and I would go 
for walks in the morning because I was pregnant, and eat 
oranges.  
 It was idealistic. We really thought we were starting 
something very exciting, but we— and we were vegetarian,  
and nonviolent, and some sort of non-denominational 
spiritual. And working hard. And I'm looking back, and I'm 
thinking it didn't have really split gender roles. It's like I was 
chopping wood and hauling stuff, and when we went into 
town to make the metal hubs  for the geodesic dome, I'm 
working the drill press and stuff. And there were guys who 
were doing a lot of the cooking as well and cleaning. But sort 
of— In terms of the dynamics of the way it worked, it was 
clear that the guys were much more pushy and outspoken and 
talkative, and it was kind of understood that the women were 
the strong, silent, wise types behind the men who had to go  
out there and do the show.  It was, you know, you sort of felt 
that dynamic anyway.  
 By the spring, when the rains were letting up and people were 
traveling up and down the west coast, hitching up and down 
the west coast, we had a lot of traffic. The word was out that 
Rainbow Farm was there, and you could come through and 
you could stay. By the time Eden was born on the eleventh  of 
July in 1971, I think there were a hundred people on the farm. 
And I think there were probably about fifteen  in the room 
when she was born, but I don't remember who they were. I 
don't have really any— every  once in a while I'll run into 
somebody who will say "Oh, I was there when your daughter 
was born." It's like, “okay.” 
Raiskin:  And who helped you with the birth?   
McPherson:  Initially, I was seeing somebody who was I think a— I don't 
know if she was a naturopath or a chiropractor. Something in  
Eugene for prenatal stuff, and she retired, and she handed me 
over to some homebirth midwives, maybe from Veneta, and I 
can't remember who they were. And on the first of July when I 
was having contractions, we went to the neighbors’ house. 
The Gatchells next door would let us use their phone, and 
called and said that I was in labor. And they came out and, 
you know, it was a first birth and I  was in labor, but I wasn't 
in labor. And they stayed for a little while and then they left. 
And then in the interim,  in the next couple days, a school bus 
showed up, and it had Leonce  and Monique, and Leonce  was 
a doctor in a free clinic in San Francisco that Terry had met 
when she traveled down there, and they were coming up 
through and they said "Oh, we'll attend your  birth."  
Raiskin:  But just coincidentally, they were there.  
McPherson:  Just coincidentally, or they knew. I think they knew I was due 
or something, I mean I don't know,  you know, it just felt like— 
so we never— I asked Garrick recently at some point, because 
he wrote a memoir. He just published this book about— 
which is full of all kind— his version of things. I said to him, 
"Do you remember who the midwives were, and did we ever 
pay them?" And he said "Oh, I'm sure we paid them.” I don't 
know if we did because we never called them back. Leonce  
and Monique were there, but it was just— I had— Well, Peter  
and Marilyn, who were the people in the barn, had moved to 
Portugal and had a baby, and Garrick and I had visited them 
when we went through on our way back from Morocco to 
England on that trip, and she had done Lamaze, so I was 
totally into Lamaze, so I had done all this reading, and we 
were just, you know, some breathing and panting and 
whatever, so, you know. Had the baby.  
 And then there was another couple on the farm where Laika  
was about a month behind me in pregnancy, so we attended 
that birth there, you know, and then I think we thought we 
knew what we were doing, and I went to maybe two or three 
more homebirths around in various places in the next  year. 
That was a piece of it.  
Long:  Karen, what kind of income did you have? How did you keep 
the farm going?  
McPherson:  Well, we spent the $17,500, so we still had a couple thousand 
dollars in the bank that was going for stuff,  but people 
brought whatever they had. So, we didn't need a lot. We 
needed things like cooking oil, and kerosene. And people, 
because we had so many people coming through, it was sort 
of understood that people would donate what was needed. 
People brought food, and people brought supplies, and 
people gave money.  
Long:  And what was the farm called?   
McPherson:  Rainbow Farm.  
Raiskin:  And how was it having a new baby?  
McPherson:  Well, it was complicated, because Garrick's parents were in 
Brazil doing street theater in the favelas in— I don't remember 
where it was they  went. I don't remember which city they 
were in. And they got arrested and thrown in jail in Brazil, so 
Garrick's grandmother went to Brazil and picked up his 
younger sister, Isha, who was four at the time  and brought her 
to us. When Eden was born, I think she brought her after Eden 
was born, but within like a week or so. I had not only a new 
baby, but Garrick and I and Terry, who was my close best 
friend who was, you know, suddenly had a very traumatized 
four-year-old who had been speaking mostly Portuguese, and 
who was now not speaking at all. And Terry kind of took her 
over, because I was overwhelmed already, and sort of fostered 
her through the summer, and at the end of the summer, Julian 
and Judith got out of jail and came and collected her and 
everything. It was a kind of an intense summer that I don't 
remember much of now.  
 And then by the time— Okay, that was '71. In December, 
Garrick and I and Kaushal  and Sihu, who were really close 
friends— Kaushal  we had  met at Reed, and he was living in 
Eugene, and we had been there when their baby was born. 
The four of us and the two babies drove across the country in 
the snow in December nonstop. I think we stopped to visit  
somebody in Denver and took a shower, but we didn't stay 
the night. We dropped them off in Memphis, which is where 
he was from, and we drove on up to New York. And it was 
the start of our— We had a Volvo station wagon that Garrick 
had— His grandmother had bought for him at some point, 
and we were going to be on the road inviting people to the 
Rainbow Family of Living Light First Annual Family 
Gathering in Colorado, in Rocky Mountain National Park in 
Colorado, which was to happen on the Fourth  of July in 1972.  
 We spent from December '71 through that winter and spring, 
first traveling all up and down the east coast going to ashrams 
and communes. You know, free communities, and you know, 
whoever we could think of to invite to this. We had printed 
up— I'm pretty sure we did that before this— printed  up a 
kind of an invitation called “The Rainbow Oracle.” I'm pretty 
sure we printed it at Jackrabbit Press with Kate, and we were 
traveling around and handing that out. And we came back to 
Eugene. And then I drove across the country with Lila and her 
two kids and Terry and me and Eden in a station wagon to 
Woodstock, New York, and then caravanned back with the 
troop from Woodstock, New York to the gathering in 
Colorado. Meanwhile, Garrick was traveling around with Sky 
Blue who is still one of my good friends, and a couple of other 
people, and doing his Garrick thing. And then we all ended 
up at the gathering.   
Raiskin:  How many people were there?  
McPherson:  Hundreds, thousands, I don't know. It was big. And I was 
uneasy about a lot of things because we'd just  had a baby, and 
I was really focused on small family, and we were doing this 
huge thing, which was part of what was Garrick was always 
about, was having to do some huge thing. I was kind of back 
and forth between trying to figure out where my piece was  in 
all of it, and—  
Raiskin:  What was the purpose of the gathering?  
McPherson:  World peace? There's a big, huge circle on the noon on the 
Fourth  of July where everybody held hands and did “Om”, 
and we were going to— and they still have— You know every 
year they have a Rainbow Gathering, so it was— Yeah. So, we 
were on the road then, and then Garrick and I went off and 
did some camping after that and traveled up and down 
through California, and ended up back in Oregon. But in the 
meantime— there  had been some talk before we left about 
that the farm was not coming together the way we wanted it. 
A lot of the people that we had started it with had left because 
they thought it was kind of too crazy, and there was this sort 
of constant turnover, and you can never  really kind of set 
something down because there was always going to be some 
new infusion of people who needed to be taught that you 
don't smoke cigarettes in the house and whatever.  
 When we got back to Oregon, the people who were living on 
the farm in our absence— There'd been a sort of arrival  of a 
group of people who were hunters with horses and guns, and 
kind of saying, you know, "Possession is nine-tenths  of the 
law, and we're here, and we're not  going anywhere." All the 
people that we had started it with had kind of gone to other 
places, and other people had moved in, and even though the 
land was in Garrick's name, it was not something that we 
were comfortable calling in the law. So, it was a real dilemma. 
We moved into a duplex in Springfield, and I was working at 
Sprout City packing alfalfa  sprouts, and we were trying to 
figure out what we were going to do. And so we called 
Garrick's parents and said "Okay, you're so smart, you deal 
with these things. We're in this situation. We don't feel that we 
want to call in the law, but we have these people who are 
basically squatting on the land and refusing to leave."  
 And it was hard, because when we went there, they stood on 
the front porch, you know, with the men with their arms 
around the women, and the gun here, and the women— you 
know, these were smart women who were not acting smart, 
and they're saying "You're going to have to use force to get us 
out of here." So we said "Here we are, we're in this dilemma." 
And Garrick's father said "You  have to figure out a way where 
it's not polarized, where they don't feel that it's a win and lose. 
Probably what you need to do is figure out what they need,  
and figure out how to help them get it." Which I guess made 
sense.  
 So, we talked to Garrick's grandmother. She was the one with 
the money. And we said "Will you help us to help these 
people to go somewhere else?" And she said “Yes.” So, we 
went, and we said "We will take you up to Washington State 
and look for a little piece  of land that you can all move to," 
and we did, and they moved.  
Raiskin:  And Garrick's grandmother bought the land?  
McPherson:  And she gave some money to go towards the land.  
Long:  Do you remember how much that was?  
McPherson:  No idea. It was a pretty crummy piece of land, as I recall. And 
it was funny because it was sort of in the middle of a lot of 
Indian reservation land, or Native— and they were always 
playing the kind of the cowboy thing and that, and it just 
looked like it was going to be really complicated. But anyway.  
Raiskin:  Where were your parents during all this? What did they think 
about your life?  
McPherson:  Oh, so my parents had moved to Saskatchewan in 1969 
because my brother was draft age, and they wanted to get to 
Canada, and my mother had gone back— She'd finished her 
dissertation while I was in high school, so she was now 
teaching— When we were in Connecticut, she was teaching  
part time at the university level at some branch of the 
University of Connecticut. And then she went on the market, 
because she published her book, and she was able to get a job 
as a professor, or assistant professor. I don't know what level 
she started in at the University of Saskatchewan. They moved 
to Saskatoon, and my father was miserable, and it was 1969, 
and everybody was like questioning what they were doing 
with their lives, and they ended up splitting up, and he went 
and packed up his typewriter, and cashed in his life insurance, 
and backpacked around Europe for a year, and she stayed in 
Saskatoon.  
 They were, I'm sure, not happy that I dropped out of college. I 
can't imagine that they thought that me deciding to have a 
baby when I was twenty, twenty-one was the best thing, but I 
never felt any kind of pressure from them. They seemed very 
accepting of what I  was doing.  
Raiskin:  When did they meet the baby?  
McPherson:  My mother came probably first for a week or so, and then my 
dad and Phyllis, who he ended up marrying later, but he 
basically was with Phyllis for the rest— You know, once he 
came back from Europe, he got together with Phyllis. Phyllis 
was my mother's first cousin, so it made the family tree very 
interesting. And they came out and visited and stayed too. 
Yeah, they were involved, and they were supportive. And I 
probably— If I read those letters, I'd figure out a little bit more  
about what was going on. I look back on the kinds of letters 
that I was writing to them, and it's kind of scary to realize how 
much I was cheerily projecting a certain confident vision of 
what I was doing, where the undercurrents were like "What 
the hell am I doing?" So, where am I then?  
Raiskin:  In Springfield in a duplex.  
McPherson:  Springfield in a duplex. Then we moved back to the farm, but 
it was just me and Garrick and Eden, and then a couple of 
other people who came and lived in other buildings, and we 
were actually trying to make it a farm, so we were growing 
carrots and soybeans, and we were fencing, and we were 
working very hard, and I decided I was feeling really— I was 
trying to write poetry, and I was trying to figure out who I 
was and what I— Whether I had any ideas of my own. And I 
decided to take a course as a, you know— It's a community 
education thing, so I came in one night a week to the 
University of Oregon and took a lit course. And then 
somebody  moved to the— David moved to the farm, and I 
actually got involved with him, which I think, at some point 
looking back, I thought it was— I kind of needed an escape 
hatch, and that was going to provide it. At the time, I don't 
know what I thought.  
 But it  sort of came to a head in the fall of— It must  have been 
1975, yeah, okay. I left the farm in the fall of 1975, and I went 
and stayed with my— Eden and I went and stayed with my  
mom in Saskatoon for a couple months. And then in January 
or February, Garrick came and picked up Eden and brought 
her back to Oregon, and David came, and he and I traveled 
east and went to Europe for a month. Came back, drove across 
the country in one of those— somebody pays you to drive 
their car across the country, and ended up back in Eugene, at 
which point I went down— Terry came, and Terry and I went 
down to the farm, and I figured out what I was going to move 
out. And I went and found an apartment in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what Eugene was like then?  
McPherson:  I didn't know Eugene very well. We would go into Eugene for 
groceries and stuff. When we were on the farm, we would 
come and— We had some friends, Leslie and somebody, and 
we'd come and do groceries and then go to their house and eat 
dinner and watch TV which was really exciting, because we 
didn't have any electricity on the farm. And we'd go to 
Springfield Creamery, and Koobdooga. So when I moved back 
to Eugene, I kind of knew it, but I didn't really know it as a 
community, you know. We knew a few people there, and I 
knew a few people there. I got a little apartment on Sixteenth. 
Right, one block off Willamette, and moved in there, and was 
suddenly a— I was still involved with David, but I was 
really— It must have taken me almost a year to detach from 
that, so he would come and go, and I would write pages and 
pages of trying to analyze and figure out why I was involved  
with him, and I was still having a lot of complicated 
interactions with Garrick, and then I had this four, five-year-
old, and I was a single mom.  
 And I needed some income. And then when Garrick and I 
split, because I felt guilty because I had run off with David, I 
didn't feel like I deserved anything, so I went to the farm and I 
took what I thought was really mine, and then I think with 
some  tension, we agreed that Garrick would give me half of 
what little amount we had in a savings account, and basically 
that was it. I needed a job, so I remember going to an 
employment agency and realizing that I didn't have any skills 
or any work experience. I can remember looking through 
windows at various offices and looking at these phones with 
buttons on them and thinking "I don't even know how to use 
one of those things," and I wasn't really— I started practicing 
typing. I wasn't really good at typing, and I was just—  
 And I had some interviews and didn't get hired, and then I 
went and had an interview at the textbook department at the 
U of O bookstore, and Nancy interviewed me. She was the— 
She wasn't the head of the textbook department, but she was  
like the top of the hierarchy in that department. And I was so 
totally surprised that I got hired, so I had a job, which was 
very exciting. And that really opened things up because 
Nancy and Karm both worked there, and at that time, each of  
them was married to their husband, both of whom were 
named Don.  
Long:  Who's Nancy?  
McPherson:  Her name was Nancy— Well, Nancy Minnie  or Nancy 
Leonard, so I think Minnie was her husband's name, and 
Leonard was her name that she went back to when she split 
from him. And so I started getting— you know, I had a group 
of new friends. I was totally involved in the fact that I was sort 
of marginally connected with the university. And all these 
textbooks coming through, and all these courses  being listed. 
And I was pretty good at my job, and so that's a period 
when— I mean there's basically a year or two— I worked 
there '76, '77, and I think I stopped working there in '77, but I 
was still in Eugene until '79.  
 There were all these overlapping things, you know. I was still 
dealing with stuff with Garrick, I was working on Ten Point 
Five, which was a collective of us did a literary magazine here 
in Eugene, and so that was a huge piece of what I was doing, 
because I really wanted to be a writer. And I was involved 
with the people that I'd met at the bookstore, and that sort of 
extended group.  
Raiskin:  Who printed it?  
McPherson:  And David was still there.   
Raiskin:  Who printed the things that you wrote?  
McPherson:  You know, it's interesting. I actually brought it because I 
couldn't— we called it Oz Publications, but I think we 
invented that. I don't think it ever says where it got printed. I 
don't remember.  
Raiskin:  And what's Ten Point Five  mean?  
McPherson:  Ten Point Five is the frequency, cycles per second, and it's the 
median alpha wave frequency of the human brain. It had 
patrons from all kinds of things, Secondhand Bookman, 
Living Room Bookstore, Son of Koobdooga bookstore, 
Homefried Truckstop, Chase Flowers and Gifts, Hoedad's Co-
op, et cetera, et cetera. Metropol, Homefried Truckstop, 
Sundance, China Blue, Sprout City. I was really involved in 
that. I spent a lot of time with those meetings and working on 
that.  
 And then I was spending a lot of time with Karm, and with 
Nancy, and with Jill, and with Bonnie, these people at the 
bookstore, and there was a lot of— Oh my gosh, I can't even 
remember the orders of things. At one point I went out with 
Karm and Nancy, and I think at that point they were each of 
them still living with their husbands, and we went to a gay 
bar, which must have been the one that you were talking 
about earlier, but I hadn't remembered that.  
Raiskin:  Riviera Room? Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
McPherson:  I do remember it was very dark and there were strobe lights 
and things, and that we danced, and that they drove— who  
was driving? I guess Nancy was driving, and she dropped 
Karm off first, and they kissed when they said goodbye, and 
then dropped me off, and so— It feels to me like it sort of 
started to dawn on me that they were having a relationship, 
and then they each moved out, and they moved in together, 
but then I got involved with Nancy first, and—  
Raiskin:  Was that a surprise to you?  
McPherson:  Not really. I think my whole sort of experience of relationships 
with people from the time that I— Well even through the time 
with Garrick when we were sort of openly, periodically in sort 
of more open sexual situations, but certainly by the time I 
moved into  Eugene, when I looked back, my memory 
flattened everything, and when I thought I remembered, I 
thought I could sort of remember "Well, you know, I did sleep 
with a couple of guys, and yeah, I did sleep with a couple 
women," and then I'm looking back and it was like much 
longer-term and more complicated things than I had actually 
remembered when I read the journals.  
 It didn't surprise me in any kind of dramatic way. It piqued 
my self interest in trying to figure out what I thought about it. 
How I felt about the fact that I clearly had always had very 
intense emotional relationships with women, but not to the 
exclusion of having relationships with men. But that I was still  
somehow looking for this sensitive cello-playing-intellectual 
professor-man who was going to be a partner, you know, that 
somehow the picture I had in my brain of who I was or where 
I was going was that. At the same time I'm kind of acting on 
whatever.  
Raiskin:  In 1979 when you're in Eugene, there's a hugely expanding 
lesbian community, and lots of organizations. How much 
awareness did you have of that world in Eugene?  
McPherson:  I think really marginal in a lot of ways. I think I sort of was 
aware of it a little bit through both Karm and Nancy and the 
other people that they were around. And I was more aware of 
kind of feminist stuff, because I had come from the commune, 
which was all counterculture, but wasn't necessarily 
articulating what was happening in terms of gender politics 
and gender dynamics. As soon as I was a single mom living in 
Eugene with a daughter and starting to read— well, I also— I 
went back to school. I mean one thing that happened was that 
after I was working in the bookstore, I got intrigued by 
specifically the French courses, and went and took one course 
and met Françoise, who was my teacher, and she said "What 
are you doing? You  should not be taking this pass/fail, and 
you should go back to school," and so I quit the bookstore, and 
I got a bunch of wonderful grants that they used to give for 
people who needed grants to go to school, and I went back to 
school. So, I had that, too.  
 I had the influence of taking Randi Brox  courses on feminist 
literature, and reading, you know, Simone de Beauvoir, and 
Virginia Woolf, and Monique Wittig and all this, so that was 
happening at the same time, and Olga Broumas giving 
readings on campus. There was the kind of the literary piece, 
and the campus piece, and the community piece, and the 
common part of it for me probably was mostly kind of 
feminist consciousness rather than awareness of the lesbian 
community. And I think— when I look at my journals I can 
see me sort of circling around to like "Why men? What is it? 
It's such a drag. Where are the good men, and why am I so 
insistently heterosexual and still sleeping with women from 
time to time, and why— " You know, just trying to figure that 
out. I was going to read you that one thing because I thought 
it was really interesting, so this was— Let's see, October 19.  
Raiskin:  This is your journal?  
McPherson:  This is from my journal . This must have been October 19, and 
I don't know what year. Seventy-nine? It says "After Holly 
Near and Mary Watkins concert, full of thoughts and 
reverberations, mostly about my own precarious and self-
conscious straddle-balance in the world of women and 
women's art, and the area of my own sexual identity, my 
sensuality. I'm heavily drawn in by the complete integrity and 
the strength and beauty of Holly Near and of her magic in 
bringing political ideals and art together. At the same time, I  
am very uncomfortable in my hetero suit surrounded by the 
Eugene lesbian community, so completely ecstatic in its pride 
in itself. I feel embarrassed to be either. I cannot focus on the 
goodness of man-ness at all in that environment, yet I 
continue to be a misfit when surrounded by sisters sistering.  
 "I feel what I feel with Jesus freaks or Moonies or frat rats or 
Maoists. I feel trapped, reactionary, the outsider. Yet I am 
seduced by this energy because it is my struggle, and it is my 
cause. I'm seduced because I'm made to feel love and 
admiration, as it always is with the Living Theater, and I 
watch my capacities for love growing, and I feel deep sensual 
life threads, but I watch myself programmed for what insane 
rat maze maneuvers with men and with myself. I  think about 
Marilyn, who is my oldest love in that sense, and I watch 
myself falling in love with Françoise, more on the idolizing 
teacher-pupil level, and sometimes with Karm it is also 
comfortable." It's like are you—  
 That's sort of where I— that kind of sums it up.  
Raiskin:  It's very self-aware.  
McPherson:  Well, yeah.  
Raiskin:  And confused.  
McPherson:  And confused, yeah. Yeah. Yeah.   
Raiskin:  Interesting. So you saw the community. You saw the 
community in Eugene.  
McPherson:  I saw it, and intersected  with it, but certainly didn't really 
know it at all at that point, I think.  
Raiskin:  Now what about any gay student union, what’s it called, the  
Gay and Lesbian Alliance—  
Long:  Yeah, the Gay and Lesbian— 
Raiskin:  —on campus.  
Long:  Alliance.  
McPherson:  Not on my radar.  
Long:  GALA.  
McPherson:  Not on my radar at Oregon at all. You know, really the only 
parts that were on my radar was the fact that I was so 
involved with Karm, especially, and totally in love with 
Françoise my teacher, so that I just went on, and on, and on 
about that, and I can remember a friend who had actually 
been a friend from Reed who had gone back to New York and 
become a very— She sort of became a Marxist lesbian 
separatist, she was really, you know, very sort of strong and 
outspoken, and she came through to visit. She said "You're in 
love with her. Why don't you just admit it? You could be a  
lesbian." And I was like "No, I'm not a lesbian. Yeah, I'm in 
love with her."  
 At that point I think I didn't— I didn't really know. I mean I 
wasn't— That's why the whole question of coming out is so 
hard for me, because I don't know what you mean when you 
say coming out. It's like I went— When I finished my degree 
and I went to France for a year with Eden, we were in France 
for a year. And before  we left Eugene— Okay, backtrack a 
little bit. I gave a poetry reading somewhere in there, and I 
met a local writer-musician named Laurence, and we started 
communicating and became friends, and he said he wanted to 
set one of my poems to music or something, and he was very 
charming.  
 He went off to Europe while I was still in Eugene, and he 
actually went off to Europe with Elise and Elise's young 
daughter because they were a couple, though I didn't really 
know that. They had showed up at the bookstore right  before 
they left for Europe, and that was the first time I ever saw 
Elise. But I didn't really— 
Raiskin:  Could you just say who Elise is?  
McPherson:  Elise is now my partner. They went off to Europe, and 
Laurence and I corresponded for the year or year and a half 
while they were in Europe. He mostly didn't write about her, 
and he was having a relationship with somebody else, and it  
was a— I'm really good at intense epistolary relationships, 
and this was an intense epistolary relationship. We 
corresponded back and forth, and he was a writer, and I was a 
writer, and we were both into French. When he said they were 
coming back, he sent all his boxes and books to my apartment, 
and he still was kind of downplaying the fact that he was with 
somebody. I mean he'd sort of mention her and then not 
mention her. And he came back first. He came back and we 
actually slept together, which was a big mistake, and then he 
was a real jerk about it, and I was real freaked out like what 
message is he— He's like "Well I always like to check it out 
and sleep with somebody, I mean, you know."  
 And then she came back with Kirsten, the older daughter, 
who was her daughter from her first marriage where her 
husband had died and her son had died, and Marieke, who 
was their daughter together who had been born in France. So 
all of a sudden there's this little family there. The first time I 
saw her, I just— I mean I read her from my diary yesterday, 
it's like I looked at her and I said "She's so beautiful and I love 
her." It's just like I don't know where— And so during that 
period before I went to France, during that summer, my mom 
had a sabbatical, so she had decided to come and spend her 
sabbatical in Eugene because she worked on sociology of 
education, and the education school here was really good, and 
there was all the stuff she wanted to do.   
 At which point I applied and got this ability to go to France 
for the year, so she came, and during the summer when I was 
still in town, we spent a lot of time with Laurence and Elise 
and the kids, and Elise and I got quite close, but she was in 
this complicated relationship with him. They had separate 
apartments— I think he thought they were going to be like 
Sartre and Beauvoir or something, you  know? And she was 
always really vulnerable, and it was, you know. But she and I 
really— that became the relationship, the close friend 
relationship. And my mother stayed on in my apartment until 
December even though Eden and I went to Europe, and so my 
mother and Elise and Laurence spent a lot of time together.  
 And Elise came over and visited twice when I was in France, 
and we traveled together, and from that point on, both when 
she was with Laurence and when she finally got free of him, 
we would spend all our vacations together. We would— 
Raiskin:  And you were not lovers?  
McPherson:  Never. We would spend Christmas together, we would travel 
together, and we had these  letters that are clearly love  letters, 
and weren't, because we just never kind of imagined that  
that's what we were doing. At the same time, she's trying to 
figure out what's happening with her relationship with 
Lawrence, and it was really hard for her to get out of that. She 
would call me up and talk for two hours in the middle of the  
night. I came back and went to graduate school, so I went to 
Yale, and—  
Raiskin:  In French?  
McPherson:  In French. At the urging of a couple of my professors from 
Oregon, when I went to France for that year, I think I thought 
I was going to be a writer and live in a little sixth floor garret 
in France forever, and then I was encouraged to apply to 
graduate school just because why not, and then once I got 
accepted, it felt like a much clearer path than the uncertainty 
of how I was going to— So that was a fork in the road that, 
you know, at times I've really regretted, but you know, sort of 
understood why it happened.  
Raiskin:  For security, financial security, or—  
McPherson:  Well not so much financial security. Definitely not. A lot of 
loans, but just something  decided, and a sort of a lighted path 
towards some goal rather than not really knowing what I was 
doing. And because I had a daughter, and I had to figure out 
where I was going to be. I had resisted academia for so long, 
and then got kind of drawn into it. And one reason I did 
French was because I didn't want to do lit crit, not in English 
because I didn't want to trample  on the sacredness of the 
writing,  but then I kind of got a lot of pleasure out of doing— 
sort of using my brain again a little bit.   
 I went to Yale. Eden was at that point nine, and she— Okay. 
She was sort of going back and— She'd spend some times in 
the summer with Garrick on the farm and go to the 
gatherings, and sort of be still living that hippy life, and I was 
being a single mom graduate student, age thirty. When I got 
to Yale, I met a bunch of the other students. I was not real 
happy. I took a course with Shoshana Felman on Lacan, and of 
course with Barbara Johnson on Mallarme  and I was a little bit 
like "What have I gotten myself into," and it was the height of 
deconstruction, everybody was working with Paul de Man, it 
was— I was really wondering whether I belonged there, but I 
felt like I was deeply into it and committed, that I'd chosen 
this and I had to make it work.  
 And I met Leslie who was a year ahead of me in graduate 
school. And we became really good friends through the fall, 
and in January of that year— so that must have been January 
1981, my mother had been visiting, and we'd been spending 
some time— Leslie was spending a lot of time at my 
apartment, and I think Eden had gone off with Garrick at 
Christmastime for something, and Leslie and I became lovers. 
And it wasn't the first time I'd been lovers with a woman. But 
we ended up living together, and I really for the life of me 
can't remember how we went from sleeping together one 
night to living together, but it seemed just to happen.   
 And I remember telling my parents, it was like "Well, you 
know, I'm with this woman," and my mother said "Well, I saw 
that coming when I was there at Christmastime." And so, she 
and I were together through Yale. She dropped out. She really 
had a hard time with it, and ended up working in a record 
store, and then working for the post office, and I stuck it out 
because I had to, sort of. And we were there until '87, when I 
finally finished my dissertation and got the job at Princeton. 
And there were— 
Raiskin:  Is that a job as a—  
McPherson:  Assistant professor.  
Raiskin:  Okay, at Princeton? 
McPherson:  We had had sort of right at the end in New Haven, she fell in 
love with somebody else, and we were seeing couples 
therapists, and I wasn't at all convinced that it was going to 
last. And when I went to the— I was such a basket case when I 
went to the on-campus interview at Princeton that I didn't 
even care, and I just kind of— Which is probably the best way 
to do one of those things, and as soon as the interview was 
over they called me in and said "We want to offer you the job," 
and I was "Fuck this." Just like— so I moved to New Jersey, 
and she decided to come even though she was still kind of 
involved with this other woman, and then we tried to patch 
things together, so we were there in New Jersey.   
 And then probably— so if we went in '87— in '89 Elise had 
been living in Toronto. She and Laurence had split up, and 
she'd gotten involved with somebody who was in his 
twenties, Bolivian, trying to get legal status in Toronto. She 
was really involved in that whole ESL community, and she 
had gone  to Nicaragua and done some work there, and some 
teaching, and so she'd gotten involved with David, and gotten 
pregnant by choice. And in 1989, August 1989, she had just 
had a baby. And so she came and visited at Christmastime 
because we always visited. And then she went back to 
Toronto, and we moved to a different house in Princeton.  
 At Princeton, I really got involved in the  Gay and Lesbian 
Task Force, and I had colleagues who were lesbian, you know, 
I mean I was— By that point, being with Leslie, I was 
identifying as, okay, you know, I'm part of this community, 
and I'm part of this politics, and I'm thinking, you know, we're 
working on this, and we were sort of working  with students, 
and being pretty active about all of that. And Leslie went to— 
decided  to change careers, and went to become a physician's 
assistant. She was in school, and she met a fellow student in 
school and fell in love with her, and so this was the second 
time that we were on the verge of splitting up, and then we 
actually kind of did, but it was this really long, painstaking, 
horrible process. And at the same time, I allowed myself to get 
involved with a woman colleague for a while.   
 All that was happening, and then Elise had moved to 
Princeton. She— Andres was two, and she felt like her 
situation in Toronto was untenable. She felt like Andres' father 
was more like a kid than a partner. He wasn't really into 
parenting. He was really young, and he would, you know, just 
go out and drink with the guys at night, and she said "I just 
can't do this," so she moved to town. So we helped her find an 
apartment, and I spent a lot of time with her helping her go 
around try to find work, working in daycare center, and she 
and Andres, who was, you know, two and three, were sort of 
part of our extended family, and Leslie and I and Elise and 
Andres would go to Leslie's parents who lived in Somerville, 
or up the road in New Jersey, and go to the diner every 
Sunday, and Andres looked at Leslie's parents like 
grandparents, you know, “Abuelita Fry.” 
 Elise was there, and was kind of part of all of this scene, and 
Leslie and I were having death throes, and at some point in 
there I was involved with Anne, and I think Leslie and I 
finally realized that we were not going to salvage this. And I 
can't remember the chronology of it, but at some point, Elise 
and I started looking at each other and said "Huh." So we 
started being physical with each other, and shortly after that 
Leslie moved out, and I changed houses, and Elise and I 
moved in together. Then we were there with Andres.  
Raiskin:  Where's Eden?   
McPherson:  Eden had gone to college. She graduated when we were still in 
West Windsor, and she was born in '71. Yeah, she had 
already— she had graduated from college by the time Leslie 
and I split up because we had gone out to her graduation 
together. She was not in the picture, but Andres was in the 
picture. Which is interesting, because when Eden was a kid 
and I was first living as a lesbian with Leslie in New Haven, I 
knew a few other lesbians. There were women in the program 
at Yale who were gay. There were a couple of faculty 
members who were living together. I didn't know any lesbian 
parents, any lesbian families. I didn't know, you know, there 
was nothing.  
 I can remember looking, and there was somewhere in some 
other far reaches of Connecticut, there was some group that 
was talking about gays who wanted to have kids. And there 
was one book by somebody in Australia called Rocking the  
Cradle  that was about lesbian parenting, but there was 
nothing. Eden was in like fourth, fifth grade, and she was very 
ashamed of having these two women living together and 
sleeping in the same bed at home. She told me she couldn't 
bring any of her friends home, and that I ruined her life, and 
you know, between me ruining her life as a lesbian and her 
dad ruining her life as this pot smoking hippie, she was pretty 
unhappy.   
 So she actually— we actually sent her off to boarding school 
for a couple years.  She went to George School, which was a 
Quaker school in Pennsylvania, for a couple of years until they 
kicked her out for breaking the rules. And then so she moved 
back with us when we moved to New Jersey. For the last 
couple years of high school she was living with us, with me 
and Leslie, and she was going to Alateen because even though 
she didn't have alcoholic parents, it kind of fit the paradigm 
that she had parents who were giving her problems, and she 
needed a supportive community. That really worked for her.  
 Andres on the other hand, even in Princeton, it didn't feel like 
such a hard thing. It was a sort of different time and a 
different kind of community, and by the time we— 
Raiskin:  And what year is that now?  
McPherson:  So it must have been '90— Well, '93 to '98, and you know, we 
were going to the Quaker meeting and had that community, 
and that's, you know, very open and diverse and accepting 
community. So it was pretty comfortable there, and when the 
job— What happened was that I was an assistant professor, 
and when it came up time for tenure, I had actually gotten a 
contract for my book with Princeton University Press, but the 
timing was such that I was not world famous, and I was not 
going to get tenure, and everybody knew it. They hadn't 
tenured a woman in my department for twenty  years or 
something like that. Either I go on the job market at that point,  
or I accept their offer to switch from the tenure track to 
become a senior instructor. So I became a senior instructor for 
three or four years where I was basically running the 
pedagogy at the language courses and teaching some 
undergraduate courses, but no longer doing graduate 
advising or teaching graduate courses.  
 That was workable at the time. Princeton had lots of things 
going for it  that I really appreciated, and I was very involved 
in Canadian studies, and bringing in lots of writers, and doing 
all— there were resources, amazing financial resources. But 
then sort of thinking "Well, you know, I might actually like to 
be somewhere else and do something else" when Elise and I 
were together, and I think we both having lived in Eugene 
and the Pacific Northwest thought that would be a place we'd 
really like to go back to. So when the job appeared at U of O in 
the Romance Languages Department, that looked really good. 
I didn't apply to a lot of places. I applied to that, and upstate 
New York, up near the— Where I'd be doing all my stuff in 
Montreal.  
 And it was strange to be coming back to a place where I'd 
been the undergraduate, and you  know. We'd both been in 
Eugene in our twenties, and we were now pushing fifty. But 
when I got the job we moved— we came out in spring break 
and found a house and moved out in May of 1998.   
Raiskin:  How did Eugene appear to you as different than the 
intervening years?  
McPherson:  We used to joke that the same guys were drumming outside 
city hall on Saturday that had been drumming when we'd 
been there before. And a lot of it seemed very familiar, you 
know, it's just like the core of it felt very much the same. The 
campus felt familiar, you know, I'm back in Friendly Hall, and 
there was some overlap. I mean Françoise was still teaching 
when I came back. I got to speak at her retirement when she 
retired. I was coming back in a relationship with Elise, so it 
was a different experience with the community, and I think I 
was— Well it's interesting, because Princeton had— You 
know, there was a lot going on, and when I was negotiating— 
Well I didn't really negotiate, but when I was talking about 
what I would get coming out, I said "There's going to be 
benefits for my partner, right?" And they said "Well yeah, 
actually, PEBB  has just put through benefits for domestic 
partners this year," and I thought "Wow, if I'd gotten this job 
last year, I wouldn't even have had it." 
 You could tell things were happening. I was really not— I 
mean I didn't really know anything about what was 
happening in Oregon, I hadn't kept up with it. So, you're 
dropping into the middle of something that had been ongoing 
that I'd missed that whole chapter and didn't really know 
what that was. But, through the university I certainly felt that  
there was— You know, I met you and Mary, I met Amanda 
and Dianne, I tapped into the women's resource mentoring 
thing, and Dianne Dugaw was my mentor and sat down with 
me and talked to me about how to succeed as an assistant 
professor. Our vet, they were lesbians. There were lesbians 
everywhere. I meant it was just, you know. And so we put 
Andres in school, and it felt like a very comfortable place to be 
bringing up a kid in a sort of an open, natural, un-self-
conscious way.  
Raiskin:  Did you know other two-mom families?  
McPherson:  Yeah. Yeah. Definitely.  
Raiskin:  On campus, were you involved as a professor in anything that 
was around gay and lesbian rights on campus?  
McPherson:  Some. You know, I did the out thing, where you put 
something on your door and say that you're out, and I was— 
Not right away, but I did get on to the task force for gay and 
lesbian stuff, more a few years into it I think.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what any of those issues were that they 
were dealing with?  
McPherson:  A lot of it had to do with sort of support for students. And 
then later, support for faculty and staff, who seem to have 
been forgotten in the— you know, everything was focused on  
the students, and not so much on the faculty and staff. Boy. 
Yeah, I'm not— 
Raiskin:  Did you feel visible as a lesbian professor for your students? 
Or was it hard to make that clear?  
McPherson:  Yeah. I think so, yeah. Yeah. I'm not  sure in all the classes 
whether I was visible as a lesbian or not, but certainly in my 
engagement with the students themselves, and when they 
came to my office and stuff. I think my inclusive politics were 
visible. I'm not sure that the personal part of it was necessarily 
visible, but not closeted either.  
Raiskin:  And how was it for you being a professor here?  
McPherson:  Mostly great.  
Raiskin:  What kind of things did you teach?  
McPherson:  I taught a lot of— I was hired specifically to do Francophone 
literature, so I did a lot of courses about Canadian and 
Caribbean Francophone— mostly women writers. Stuff about 
borders and identity and some courses on autobiography, 
women's autobiography. I'm mostly teaching women writers 
in one form or another. At one point in 2000 my mom died, 
which was a huge thing for me, and sort of influenced both 
my creative work and my academic work, so I really started 
working a whole lot on mourning, and memory, and—  
Raiskin:  Were you still writing poetry?   
McPherson:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I kind of stopped through graduate 
school and then by the time— I really got serious again when I 
came back to Oregon. It was much harder at both Yale and 
Princeton to make space for that in my life.  
Raiskin:  Well, you recently retired.  
McPherson:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  What are you thinking about retirement?  
McPherson:  I love it. I'm the soft retirement, so I'm still teaching one or two 
courses a year for a couple years, so it doesn't feel so complete 
as it will when I stop doing that. That's a kind of a— It's a 
really nice way to wean yourself from what you've putting so 
much energy into for so long.  
Raiskin:  Do you have plans for what you want to— 
McPherson:  I'm writing. I'm spending so much time writing, and I'm 
putting together another volume of poetry, and I'm doing  a lot 
of literary translation. I've got two big translation projects I'm 
working on. And then Elise and I are hoping to do some 
traveling while we still have our minds and bodies in 
somewhat functioning order.  
Raiskin:  Is she retired?  
McPherson:  She's semi-retired. She's a homebirth midwife, so she sort of 
last year stopped taking her own primary clients except in rare  
cases of repeats, and she's working with another midwife, so 
she's mostly working as an assistant to another midwife 
rather, and so— It's hard to plan travel around a midwife's 
schedule, so you really have to say "Okay, we're going to do a 
trip in June, I'm not taking any clients." You know, so she has 
to plan that ahead, but we're feeling a little bit as though we're 
sort of easing our way into that retirement.  
Raiskin:  Are you thinking about staying in Eugene?  
McPherson:  Oh God, I don't know. It's really complicated, and you wish 
that the kind of vision of some sort of sane collective 
communal something were within reach because it would 
make so much sense, but I can't quite wrap my mind around 
exactly what, or where, or who.  
Raiskin:  Are you thinking about as you age—  
McPherson: Yeah.  
Raiskin:  When you're thinking about that, are you thinking about 
aging as a lesbian particularly, or in other kinds of community 
connections?  
McPherson:  I'm not sure I understand the question.  
Raiskin:  One question is what do you think about aging as a lesbian? 
The other question is about your ideas about your living 
situation.   
McPherson:  I think aging as a lesbian doesn't make sense to me, partly 
because I don't see what difference it would make if I were 
with a man or a woman at this point, in terms of aging. I think 
it would make a difference if I didn't have kids. But—  
Raiskin:  Why?  
McPherson:  Well, there's some sense that there's some already some kind 
of extended family responsibility. Somebody who's going to 
have to take all those boxes in the garage and decide whether 
to keep them or throw them out, you know?  That's just one 
worry that's not there. I mean it is there, because why am I 
leaving all those boxes in the garage for her to have to figure 
out what to do with, and shouldn't I be getting rid of them, 
but that's a piece of it. We have really close friends, and I can 
imagine wanting to be in a community of close friends and 
maybe a lesbian community, but then every time I'm in a 
lesbian community, I sometimes find myself thinking "Oh, I'm 
not so sure I want to be here." Elise and I were both for many 
years until very recently part of Soromundi, which is 
wonderful, and really provided us social— 
Raiskin:  The lesbian chorus?  
McPherson:  The Lesbian Chorus of Eugene, and it's a wonderful social 
network. It's gotten very big, which is one of the reasons we're 
not doing it. I mean it's a hundred people, it's a lot of people to 
be hanging around, especially if you're not that social all the  
time. But then I found myself thinking Well I'm not sure— 
Some of these people I could really comfortably live with, but 
I couldn't comfortably live with all of them.  A lesbian 
community by definition isn't necessarily where we would be 
comfortable. I don't know. You know, it's really hard to figure 
out. 
Raiskin:  And if it were a  retirement community that was just a 
mainstream one, and there weren't very many lesbians, would 
that be comfortable?  
McPherson:  You know— I mean it would depend on what— I'm sure there 
are— I mean it's like when I moved my dad out here after 
Phyllis died, and moved him into the Eugene Hotel, and he 
was very sick, and he died after six months so he didn't get to 
benefit from it, but the Eugene Hotel is like okay, this is a 
place I could imagine he could have been comfortable in a sort 
of a retirement community, because these are like parents of 
faculty members, and they read the Nation, and they read 
books, and they talk about interesting things, and they have 
interesting liberal politics. I mean there are a lot of pieces of it 
that would be part of it, including how other people, whether 
or not they're lesbian, feel about sexuality and all the various 
issues.  
Raiskin:  There's been some talk of lesbians taking over a floor of the 
Eugene Hotel.   
McPherson:  Oh really?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
McPherson:  That's a good idea.  
Raiskin:  I mean it's interesting to think about people who have had 
very— have  committed much of their lives to communal 
living and working out different kinds of living situations to 
be, at this part of their lives, thinking  about what makes sense.  
McPherson:  Right.  
Long:  And to feel safe.  
McPherson:  Yeah. Yeah. I mean on one level it's exactly what I think we 
should be doing, is figuring out with like-minded people that 
we really would like to spend time near, if not on top of, how 
we can share resources and support each other, and make a 
livable last chapter. I've had enough experience of how hard 
that is, and where it can go wrong. I guess I'm not sure about 
how to— 
Raiskin:  There might be that land in Washington you could go to— 
McPherson:  I don't think so.  
Raiskin:  Is there any topic that we haven't covered that you think 
would be important to include?  
McPherson:  Oh God, I don't know. I don't think so.   
Long:  We usually ask the last question, and Julee usually asks the 
last question.  
McPherson:  Oh, okay.  
Raiskin:  If you could imagine a young person now or in the future 
watching this and listening to you about your life and you 
have the wisdom of your life, what advice would you give a 
young person?  
McPherson:  Are you kidding  me? Well first I'd say it's okay. Whatever you 
are thinking and feeling at the time that you're thinking and 
feeling it, it's okay. Don't stress about it too much. Boy. If I 
were speaking to my younger self, I would probably urge 
myself to have more faith  in my own thoughts and feelings, 
and to check in to see how I'm doing. Patience and generosity 
and probably making sure that you keep the connections with 
the people around you that reflect back to you the person you 
want to be. Something like that.  
Raiskin: That's good advice. Thank you so much.  
McPherson:  You're welcome.  
Long:  Yes, thank you. 
Raiskin:  You were really wonderful, listening to your story.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  