  
 
Long: This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Adelka Shawn and Alicia Hays  on 
September 11, 2018 taking place in the University of Oregon 
Libraries’ Recording Studio in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the University of Oregon Libraries’  
Special Collections and University Archives and Professor Judith 
Raiskin of the University of Oregon Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Adelka and Alicia, please let us 
know if you agree to be recorded for this project and that you give 
your permission for the university to preserve and make available 
your recorded and transcribed interview.   
Shawn:  I agree.  
Hays:  I agree.  
Long:  Thank you. Let's just get started with basic question, Adelka, we'll 
start with you. Can you please tell us where you were born, where 
you grew up, and something about your early background? 
Shawn:  Sure. I was born in December of 1957, in Aurora, Colorado. My 
father was in the air force as a pilot and so we moved around a lot. 
I lived in Colorado, Alaska, Virginia, Illinois, Oregon. And my 
father served seven tours of duty in Vietnam, so he was gone a lot. 
And we moved to Illinois in his final— where he was stationed in 
his final assignment. And that was when I was a freshman in high 
school and eighth grade, I think. I quit  high school as a freshman 
when I was fourteen  years old and ran away from home and 
moved to North Carolina with my friend Karen. And hung out 
there being a bad teenager for a number of years and then moved 
to Oregon when I was nineteen, I think in 1978. Well, the math 
might be wrong. ‘78 or ‘79? No, ‘78. I moved to Oregon.  
Raiskin:  Why did you run away?  
Shawn:  Good question. Partly because my friend was in a bad family 
situation. She was being abused in her home and she wanted to 
leave and what's a friend  to do but hitchhike to North Carolina. 
And it was my third time running away from home at that point. I 
don't really— I think it was 1971, 1972 and it was kind of a cool  
thing to do. And I didn't want to be at home. And I don't actually 
know why.  
Raiskin: How did your parents respond?  
Shawn:  My father responded by drinking and thinking I was dead and my 
mother by searching and finding me and bringing me home twice. 
And then the third time we just made an agreement that I would 
call weekly, and we found friends to live with. We got jobs dish 
washing.  
Raiskin:  And what are they upset your parents upset about you're not going 
to high school? The education part of it.  
Shawn:  Well, I think my family always assumed we would all go to college, 
so I'm sure they weren't happy about that. But that, I think that was 
kind of the least of their concern at that point. Because I had 
hitchhiked across the country and they were more concerned with 
my safety than my education at that point.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any sense  of yourself as a lesbian in those years?  
Shawn:  I don't think I knew the word lesbian at that point. Probably not till 
I came to Eugene. I mean, I may have known it, but it never 
occurred to me. I knew I always liked having friends who were 
girls.  I dated boys, but they were the androgynous Bobby Sherman 
types. I’m  dating myself there. It wasn't until I came to Eugene that 
I saw lesbian community and saw lesbians and went, "There you 
go." And then it all clicked, made all kinds of sense.   
Raiskin:  Alicia what about your early life?  
Hays:  My early life is a little different. I'm from a family of six kids. I'm 
the second oldest. Parents never divorced; they're together. The 
family's still very tight. We just got back from a family reunion 
with all of us and only one of us voted for Trump, which is 
surprising given that I was raised in a conservative, Catholic, 
Republican, very Republican, household. But things change and it's 
a fun family to grow up in. I grew up in Idaho, early years in Boise, 
and then my dad  ran a steel company and we moved to Pocatello 
or as we refer to it, “Poke-a-hell-hole.” And in my family, like I 
said, there's four girls and two boys, but really in my family— one 
of my younger siblings coined the phrase: “No, there's two 
lesbians, two girls and two boys.” 
 My older sister and I are both lesbians. And when you see our 
pictures, I think I was still in diapers and my parents got us a jeep 
with army helmets and guns and this was ’62, ‘63 because that's 
what we wanted. And so kind of always grew up with boys tennis 
shoes and just being in letting— my mother just let us be and my 
father as well. Let us be who we were. In terms of a sense of coming 
out, I think I had that sense about really enjoying the company of 
women being around women. I remember my sixteenth  birthday, 
my mother, we had just moved to a new house and she asked me to 
help get the house ready. Out of the six kids, I was the one that 
helped a lot. And because she was going to have her friends over  
and I loved her friends. They were a bunch of  lesbians from the 
bookstore that she ran.  
 And I knew these women, they were university women. And I 
remember on my sixteenth  birthday going to a movie, coming 
home, excited that my mother's friends were going to come over, 
but it wasn't my mother's friends, it was a surprise party with all 
my friends. Was a little disappointed of like, "But what— this is 
great. My mom's friends are coming to— Oh no, they aren't 
coming. That was just what she told you." And like this sadness on 
my sixteenth  surprise birthday party because my mom's friends 
weren't coming.  
 And so I was having that sense in high school, but my older sister 
was having a little more struggle. She was in college, college athlete 
doing that. Kind of pushing away the whole concept of being a 
lesbian. She wasn't happy and we would talk because you went to 
college in the same town where I was still living, going to high 
school.  
 So, just not really addressing those feelings. And then when I was a 
senior in high school, I injured myself. I broke my back. We were 
inner tubing,  my friends and family, and so everything got put on 
hold, including getting the hell out of Pocatello.  
 And so when I finally started college and started thinking about it 
and again, I said my mother ran a bookstore and I remember going 
in and looking at books, lesbian books. And there were very few  
and Pocatello at B. Dalton's, but there were a few, I remember 
picking up one and purchasing it. I'm terrible with names, but it 
was one of the older or the couple that moved to California, and I'm 
sure you all know.  
Raiskin: Phyllis Lyon.  
Hays:  Yeah, right. So, lesbian something, right.  
Raiskin:  Lesbian/Woman. 
Long:  Lesbian/Woman.  
Hays:  Yeah. I went up to the counter, my mother was working and I kind 
of intentionally as a  joke, put it down, put my hand over it, like to 
purchase it. I remember my mother picking it up and going, "Does 
your mother know you're going to buy this? Did she—" And the 
man next to us said, "Honey, it's okay. You go ahead, you buy that." 
And I'm like, "That's my mother." So, always supportive. I've been 
lucky, people here, conservative Catholic;  you wouldn't think you 
would have the support— 
Shawn:  Right.  
Hays:  —for who you are. But I certainly have felt that with my family and 
with my parents, for sure. 
Raiskin:  What would you say, Adelka,  was your temperament, your 
personality before you came, when you were growing up?   
Shawn:  When I was growing— I have four brothers, two older and two 
younger. I was the middle child and the only girl and I'm kind of 
the peacekeeper by nature, I think, I try, which was a big job in that 
family.  
Hays:  I just say Adelka we should share that, her family all lives in town.  
Shawn:  Yes.  
Hays:  Except one brother who lives in Seattle. So it's not— 
Shawn:  Yeah, it's a close family, but it's a— 
Hays:  I don't know, I feel very close. They are over a lot. 
Shawn:  I think I felt my role was as the peacekeeper and trying to make 
things right, walking on eggshells a lot. My father was a very active 
alcoholic up until the divorce. My mom and he got divorced. I was 
kind of just trying to tread water and walk on eggshells around all 
the tension in the house.  
Raiskin:  What brought you each to Eugene?  
Shawn:  Well, I was in North Carolina and I knew that I was going nowhere 
fast there and I knew that wasn't— because I was just partying with 
my friends all the time, which is fine when you're younger, but it 
was time. And I came out here, my mom married a second time 
and I met this guy who was very paternal and caretaking and he 
wanted me to come out here and live with him, so he was very  
chivalrous. This was in 1977, 1978 and he hitchhiked from here to 
North Carolina so that I wouldn't have to hitchhike back by myself.  
 We came back here and we lived together like eight months or 
something. It was clearly not meant to be. But it got me back to 
Oregon. We lived in Myrtle Point at that time. And I then moved to 
Eugene, got a job, got my GED and started kind of finishing 
growing up at that point.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about Eugene before you came here?  
Shawn:  Well my mom was here by then. She had moved here with my 
brothers and so I'd been here and I knew it was a very safe and 
liberal place to be. At that point, I wasn't thinking about women's 
community or lesbian community. Once I started going to LCC and 
hanging out in the Women's Center and taking Kate Barry's 
women's studies classes. I don't know if anybody's talked about her 
classes at LCC yet.  
Raiskin:  Tell us about them.  
Shawn:  Well, she taught women's studies 101 and it was eye opening and 
she's a very knowledgeable, wise person who's also a very good 
professor. She would lay things out in a way that I had a whole 
new understanding of politics and power and oppression and then 
between those classes and hanging out on the Women's Center I 
started meeting a lot of people who made a lot of sense to me.  
Raiskin:  How did you get Alicia?   
Hays:  So, after— 
Shawn:  Again, very different story.  
Hays:  After I hurt myself when I was a senior and ended up in a rehab 
hospital back in the day and  when I got out, my dad informed me 
that he had signed me up for the university and I swore I wasn't 
going to go there, but I had a bumpy transition from this new life. 
And so I went to Idaho State University and I met a number of 
women athletes from Eugene and met my partner there and she 
played softball. And the other thing, there wasn't a lot of 
wheelchair sports. There was no wheelchair sports, there was 
wheelchair outdoor activities. And I participated in that, trying to 
figure out how to roll a kayak from not being able to use your 
knees. So, risking my life every chance I got to see if I could— I 
don't know what I was trying to see if I could do.  
 But anyway I survived that and really wanted to play sports again. 
My sister was playing intramural sports. I really had planned to 
play, go on a scholarship. Like she did from tennis. Anyhow, 
looking at wheelchair basketball, I had seen it played when I was in 
middle school. Then, you know how they did assemblies?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Hays:  They had these men come to our middle school and our junior high 
and I had watched wheelchair basketball. When I hurt myself, I 
knew there was sports even though they weren't really  there in 
Pocatello.  
 My partner at the time played softball for Idaho State and again, a 
lot of women from Eugene playing there on that team. And they 
canceled the softball team, they cut it and she got a scholarship to 
the U of O. Well, she had options where she wanted to go, but I 
knew it was the closest women's wheelchair basketball team. And I 
was graduating and she had two years left.  
 And so it came out to Eugene not realizing there were actually no 
jobs, but I had my degree from Idaho State, so I was sure doors 
would fly open and I would have a job in no time  [chuckles]. Little 
did I understand the height of the recession for the wood products 
industry and what was happening here.  
Long:  Excuse me, what year was that then?  
Hays:  Nineteen eighty-three. 
Long:  Nineteen eighty-three. 
Hays:  Nineteen eighty-three, September of 1983.  
Hays: That's how I moved out here. And quick story about why there 
were so many women from Eugene. I found out later when my 
friend who was my first basketball coach, Maureen McCauley, told 
me a story about her and her partner at the time moving out here 
and living with these two women and telling stories about their 
house, the room they rented and she said, "Yeah, her name was 
Beth Bricker and Mary Ann”  I can't remember  [her last name]. Oh 
my God. Those were the coaches at Idaho state. Those were the  
basketball coach and the softball coach.  So they had been here in 
Eugene. My friend was living with them. They got the jobs at Idaho 
State and then just recruited heavily from Sheldon and Churchill 
and South and North. That's why there were so many women from 
Eugene playing at Idaho State. That's kind of a small world, but 
brought me out here.  
 What was funny is some of them chose to stay and I got to know 
their parents here. And on more than one occasion a parent would 
say to me, "Why are they still in Pocatello?" I had no answer for 
them. I didn't know why they were still there.  
Raiskin:  When you came here, how soon did you see the lesbian 
community?  
Hays:  Actually, I knew the lesbian community before I came here because 
there was a conference that was being put on by DREDF Disability 
Education and Defense Fund out of San Francisco. I had worked 
with them right after my injury on learning to be an activist around 
504 and making sure 504 regulations were implemented in your 
state, local government. And then had used them actually as an 
advocate at my university when I started, there was one bathroom 
that was accessible on campus so learning to be an activist.  
 And it happens that a lot of those women were lesbians that were 
there training. In fact, they told me later, they saw me in the back of 
the room and say, "Who's that young dyke?" And I'm like, "You 
could've told me. Could have saved me a couple of years. Had I  
known." But anyhow, so we had done a no  more  stairs conference 
in Pocatello and some women that were on staff doing that training 
were from Eugene.  And so I got to know them. When I moved to 
Eugene, when we moved to Eugene, I already had a connection to 
the lesbian community. And I got the insight on when you go to the 
Riv Room and all of that, plus playing basketball, that was also a 
strong connection.  
Raiskin:  What did the lesbian community seem like to you when you came?  
Hays:  Well, what I appreciated was, coming from college, and I'm sure 
this is true in a number of colleges, the lesbian  community at your 
university were the people doing sports. Particularly, that was my 
connection to the community. When I came here, I remember 
seeing women that weren't athletes, but they were more like, "Oh 
my mom's friends from the university, from when I was sixteen," 
and very intrigued with that.  
 In fact, I know my relationship— I knew it was ending, and  I 
remember thinking to myself, "Oh yeah, next relationship I want to 
be with a real lesbian." You're in early twenties. And so real lesbian 
is an activist or somebody that really understands the culture. And 
so I was very intrigued by that.  
 I found one, and I have to say this, this has, we were doing the 
timeline, we were looking at things and I'm like, "Wow, you are 
really active and look you married me and you  bought a house you  
went to work and had a kid." Sorry, I've kind of made your life 
rather boring.  
Shawn:  It's not boring.  
Long:  So how long have you been together now?  
Shawn:  Thirty-five years.  
Raiskin: Wow. I want to hear about your activist time.  
Shawn: Well, before I met Alicia— 
Hays:  See, it was all before. “And then we—“ 
Shawn:  It has continued since then, but in very different ways. I was very 
involved with violence against women prevention and activities, 
actions. Some of that was fairly predictable working with Rape 
Crisis Network, being a volunteer and being a volunteer on the 
phone and going and speaking in the high schools and stuff. And 
some of it was less legal than that. And I was involved with some 
action groups, which you may hear about more from Barb Ryan  
and I were involved with some of those. I know you've interviewed 
her, but so we did some more like disruptive actions in the dead of 
the night.  
Long:  Like what?  
Shawn:  Well, we've never talked about it. We've never— 
Hays:  I’m pretty sure the statute of limitations is over.   
Shawn:  The most vivid memory I have is there's an adult bookstore. It's 
actually still here in town. And we went inside and were disruptive 
with other customers. But we also went in the dead of the night and 
vandalized a  piece at their  outside  property. 
Raiskin:  What was your objection to the adult bookstore?  
Shawn:  Well, we felt that pornography starting from soft pornography all 
the way through hard pornography was part of the culture of 
violence that was being created and women weren't safe. And that 
was a very visible and concrete way that  that culture was being 
created and we thought that should be disrupted.  
Raiskin:  What was the disruption with the customers? What did you— 
Shawn:  I don't really remember. I just remember being— I don't, we were 
just— I don't actually remember what it looked like. I actually, it 
would be— I want to get together with my friend Barb from the 
time because she'll be able to fill in some of the pieces. So, from 
that, then I lived in the Whiteaker neighborhood with my partner at 
the time, Maureen, who was her first basketball coach  [points to 
Alicia]. And I was involved with a group in the neighborhood with 
Sally Sheklow  and Connie Newman and some other people whose 
names I don't remember.  
 And we started the— we began a program called Safe House. And 
at the time VISTA was a program that was funded and we wrote a 
proposal to VISTA asking for— to be able to hire workers to  
implement the safe house program. That was ‘80 something. I don't 
know.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe how the Safe Houses work?  
Shawn:  Families or anybody in a neighborhood would sign up and there 
would be— we would do background checks and trainings so that 
there was a sign that was visible in their home. So people who were 
walking and we knew that those streets didn't feel safe to anybody, 
any women at night or many times of the day, too. And so the signs 
were posted in their windows and you knew that if you didn't feel 
safe, that  was a how she could go to. That was the premise  of it.  
Raiskin:  And what other activities you've been involved with before you 
met Alicia? 
Hays:  Before you became— 
Shawn:  Well, I kind of then started— a lot of the demonstrations that were 
rallies I would go to, there were  sign language interpreters. I 
started learning sign language here locally. And then in 1983, I 
went to Portland and got my associates degree in Interpreting. And 
so then I became more involved with the disabled community and 
brought my perspective of being in a marginalized community to 
that work. Sure I did some other stuff too, but I don't remember. It's 
a long time ago.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet?   
Shawn:  I was— Mobility International USA that's housed here on Eugene 
has lots of opportunities to host disabled folks from around the 
world. And my partner, Maureen and I, had been involved in that. 
And when Alicia first moved here, she and her partner came to a 
fundraising event and we met there. And that's the very first time 
we met. Right? But when Alicia moved here, she joined the 
basketball team, which my then partner Maureen was coaching.  
Hays:  There you go. Actually I remember them Mobility event because 
they had raffles and Adelka was winning all of them.  
Shawn:  Yeah.  
Hays:  It sounds intriguing.  
Shawn:  I'm lucky at raffles.  
Hays:  And continues to be so. That's where we met. And then just 
through the connection of playing ball and knowing Maureen, we 
hung out together as couples and then.  
Raiskin:  Reshuffled.  
Hays:  Reshuffled Yeah.  
Shawn:  Maureen and I broke up and not long after.  
Hays: I broke up with my partner because I wanted a real lesbian as a 
girlfriend.   
Shawn:  Someone who would challenge the Republic an ideas. She had a few 
still then.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about the publications that were around 
in the early ‘80s or things where you've found other connections 
with people?  
Shawn:  Sometime when I was— must have been ‘79, ‘80, ‘81 before I got 
together with Maureen. I was living in a house with a woman 
named Leslie Weygren  and it was a big house and she was kind of 
the main renter, but lots of rooms got rented to lesbians. In fact, 
that's— 
Raiskin:  Where was that house?  
Shawn:  On Washington and Eleventh. And Leslie lived there. I lived there. 
There were lots of lesbians at the time and Leslie came from New 
Jersey and she was a big lesbian in every sense of the word. And I 
learned a lot from her. She also had a friend named Howie, we 
called him “Bag of Donuts,” but it's Howie— it's on that masthead  
in there somewhere.  
 Anyway, they with some other people started a publication called 
Closet Space, which was a weekly printed newsletter, newspaper for 
our community. And their goal with that, one of their goals was 
that it was lesbian and gay men and they— because they really felt 
like there weren't really strong connections  between those 
communities. And that was, I think one of their goals with the 
paper and a lot of the stuff they did. So, that was there.   
 And then of course at Mother Kali’s, the feminist bookstore, which 
was I’m sure everybody talks about Mother Kali’s because it was, 
you go in and you feel like you're connected to the community 
immediately. Izzie, who was originally Anne, right? She made it 
her mission to connect people. When you went in, she didn't just 
offer ideas about what kind of books you might enjoy. But if you 
needed to connect with people with certain like-mindedness, there 
was community information and it was kind of a place to hang out.  
Raiskin:  Were you here for Referendum 51?  
Shawn:  I was here, but I wasn't involved in that activity. I mean, enough 
work around that.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about the measures that you were here 
for and both of your involvement in those?  
Shawn:  They all run together at this point. But we were involved in from 
the 9, 8, 9, 36 and 20-06, which was the Springfield measure. We 
had some really good friends who were very involved in that. And 
so all along the way we would host  house parties. And one of the 
things that we kind of got tapped to do frequently was to kind of be 
the face of what does a lesbian look like or what does the lesbian 
family look like. We were willing to be interviewed and the 
Register-Guard  and Eugene Weekly  and after we had Jackson, which 
was in 1993, we became more involved in that kind of way. We 
weren't real in the organization aspect of it, but we were helping 
with fundraising and being the face on occasion.   
Hays:  Right.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what it felt like to you to deal with those, those 
measures and read them and think about them?  
Hays:  Yeah, I do remember it. How hard  it was. At the time, I was 
working for— where  I retired from— for the County, and  you 
know, when you think you're out and you, you know, you're kind 
of making that— I was younger, I was starting to come out, but not 
making those statements. And I remember  the one, I can't 
remember the number, but it was one the rescinded, the governor's 
protection. And I remember saying being just so frustrated the day 
after it passed and being in someone's office that she shared with 
another woman, two women and saying something about it, just 
saying how horrible it was. And one of the women who I knew was 
a lesbian and they were best friends, they worked together, got up 
and basically kind of pushed me like, "You need to leave, you don't 
want to talk about politics” and shut the door.  
 And I realized, One, she didn't want to be out to her friend and that 
I wasn't out because she was surprised. She had voted “yes” for it. 
And I think at that point in my life was the time that I started 
thinking, I need to be out. I need to be vocal about this. I need to 
not just to have people assume. And it's one of those stories where I 
did come out, we did get married. This woman hosted— was one 
of the hosts of our— the woman that had voted “yes.” And I don't 
know that her friend ever came out to her. And they retired. But 
that she hosted one of our showers for the office.   
 And a number of years later, she had a nephew who came out and 
she said, "No one in the family understands him." We talked and 
she was listening to him and he was going through some hard 
times. And I think how important it was that I came onto her, that 
she started seeing a community that she hadn't seen before and that 
played into how her family moved forward with things.  
Raiskin:  How old were you when you started coming out publicly?  
Hays:  I was probably twenty-five. Twenty. You think you're out.  
Raiskin:  Right?  
Hays:  But when do you say, wait, no, and just in case you don't know. I 
find it funny being on the school board and if we happen to be  on a 
national Coming Out Day, I keep telling people, I'm still looking for 
folks, so if there's anybody in the audience that I haven't come out 
to let me know or now it's kind of funny and fun, but to think back 
then just how scary it was. I remember doing a panel as a person 
with a disability on women's studies. I don't know who sent me up 
on that one. It was probably my work with the Human Rights 
Commission, but and saying no.  
 I remember talking to the students and they asked me if I was out 
and I said "No I don't really think that's important, to be out and it 
would affect my work." This was before I did come out. And the 
students just, "Oh, you have to.  You have to." And I'm left there at 
twenty-three  or whatever I was, going,  “I don't think I have to,” 
and being challenged.  
Shawn:  See what I was dealing with.  
Hays:  Well, and then Adelka went to work for the school district. So you 
start wondering about that.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about working with the school district?  
Shawn:  But it is— it was very similar. I mean, I think we both from when I 
met Alicia both of us, we never worked in the closet, really. We 
were always out. But like Alicia said, being out is one thing, but 
actually literally saying the words— I assume everybody knows. I 
never hid it. Never— I would always refer to my partner and talk 
about Alicia, but it wasn't until the measures happened when it 
was very clear to all of us that we needed people to know they 
knew people. And that was— which seems so unusual now in this 
day and age. But people didn't know they knew lesbians. They 
didn't know they knew gay men. And so that was one of the 
outcomes of the measures and the direction the movement took 
was that it is important to actually say it. Invite your neighbors 
over and say you're having dinner with lesbians.  
 In my work in the public schools, I worked with a deaf and hard of 
hearing students and was an interpreter for the first part of my 
career and then became a coordinator and teacher of the deaf. But I 
did find out I had a supervisor who when he retired, he told me a 
story of a family, early on in my career, must've been ‘88, 
something like that.   
 There was a family who when they knew I was going to be 
assigned to be the interpreter for their student went to him and 
said, "We don't want her with our students because she's a lesbian.” 
We know this because I was out.  And he said, "We don't make 
assignments based on that kind of information." And he didn't tell 
me about it until long after, which I'm grateful for because that 
student and her family we worked together for the next twenty 
years. And I think that we all benefited from that connection.  
 And it's different being in a public school. I mean, you do feel 
like— there were a lot of people I worked with who didn't feel like 
they could  come out because they were working in a public school, 
especially during all the measures. And I was fortunate in my 
position, I felt like I could and so I did.  
Raiskin:  Why would you be different than a teacher?  
Shawn:  You know what, I don't really know  why it felt like I had the more 
kind of have the luxury.  
Raiskin:  But were you assigned to a specific school or was it more that you 
traveled around the schools?  
Shawn:  Each year I'd be assigned to one or two schools. It's not like I wasn't 
in classrooms with students all day long. But I also, at that point 
didn't have a child and I don't know, I always felt that, I think we 
both felt like we had a lot of privileges and had the opportunity to 
take the risk of being out. And we have a lot of friends who didn't 
feel that way for a long time   
Raiskin:  Because you felt you could get another job or you could— 
Shawn:  I don't know why we felt that way. I guess I didn't— I was more— I 
felt pretty confident that I wouldn't actually lose my job, that it 
could be uncomfortable, that I'd have to go through some stuff. But 
I don't know why I felt like I had that privilege. But I did know 
other people who felt they didn't. And I felt like I kind of had to be 
more out because of the people who couldn't be out. And I worked 
with some amazingly supportive people over the years.  
Hays:  I think, too, you worked closer to administration and so you knew 
when you work in a school setting, if you're in the school, there's a 
couple more layers and you had a strong connection to the 
superintendent and your  manager.  
Shawn:  Right. I always did feel supported by my supervision, always. Not 
that they always really appreciated— we would do things like wear 
our rainbow necklaces during measures. 
Raiskin:  Did you see in the schools a growing  support of gay and lesbian 
students?  
Shawn:  No. I think that I did see a shift in teachers and other school staff 
and their acceptance. I'm not sure how— that I saw dramatic 
changes in how that affected kids and the school culture. Up till 
today  students still choose to live in or to attend schools in the 
south Eugene area rather than north Eugene area or some of the 
other areas because they feel more supported in their schools.   
Raiskin:  Kids who identify as gay?  
Shawn:  Yeah.  
Hays:  Gay, lesbian, trans. 
Shawn:  Gay, lesbian, trans students still feel safer in some schools than 
others, even in Eugene School District. I think Eugene School 
District has done a lot of work around it especially related to trans 
students in these last twelve, fifteen  years.  It's kind of been on the 
cutting edge of some of those supports for students.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about your work?  
Hays:  I'm probably less of an activist and more of a policy person. When 
you're on the inside, which is where I've spent most of my life in a 
position with more power, I think addressing it that way, which is 
also kind of scary because you put yourself on the line. But from 
being on the Human Rights Commission at the City of Eugene, I 
remember first time I was outed in the Register-Guard  surprised 
they heck out of me because I was on the Committee for People 
with Disabilities. And all of a sudden when we came together, I 
remember Jeff Wright wrote "Alicia Hays, one of several lesbians  
on the…" And I remember that just being a little scary. It's funny 
how it comes around. Jeff ended up at our church being our son's 
mentor.  
 And occasionally I would say, "Thanks for outing  me in the RG 
kind of took care of that for me." And so how do you change that  
system that you're a part of and  that you're benefiting from? I also 
think about how my connection and my being part of the lesbian 
community and what I've learned about being a lesbian really had 
such influence on my management style.  
Raiskin: Can you explain that? 
Hays:  I recently retired from Health and Human Services at Lane County. 
I spent thirty-one years mostly in management at Lane County. 
And when I left I remember I had  600 plus employees in the 
department. And I also spent nine months as an interim County 
Administrator. But I think that concept of collaboration of how do 
we listen to voices that are outside what's safe, and I did that— I 
remember we were dealing with issues when I was county 
administrator and I was listening to the inside circle and  [hearing]  
“this is the way it's going to be.” And I remember being 
occasionally— I share that with my friends probably more than 
they care. My management philosophy or my philosophy of this is 
“How we're going to deal with this?”  
It would happen to be issue around homelessness and protests.  I 
was there as county administrator at that time. And I remember my 
friend, we were talking about porta johns being delivered to county 
property where people were camping illegally as protests. And I 
was like, "Why did they think they can leave that porta john on the 
county property?" And I remember my friend looking at me and 
saying, "Don't you want him to have a bathroom?" I'm like, "Yeah, 
we're leaving the bathroom."   
 But you get into this inside base— if you will, this, this mindset. 
And it's always been great for me that I get to be challenged by my 
friends to be a little better and to think a little different. I feel that 
I've had that inside the County because we've had at different times 
a lot of lesbians working for the county. And I think part of it is just 
what we talked around diversity and equity. If you hire people and 
they have a good experience, they're going to tell their friends and 
they're going to tell their friends It's a good place to work. And I 
feel like I had that opportunity. 
Long:  Can you tell us again what your job was in Lane County Health 
and Human Services?  
Hays:  I was the Director of Lane County Health and Human Services. 
Long:  What years?  
Hays:  I started and I became a supervisor in the workforce and then I 
moved on to  health to be a performance and development person, a 
trainer. I was in— I ran the internal training programs and then I 
became a director of the Department of Children and Families for 
ten years. And that was where you could be a bureaucrat and an 
activist for ten years and it was great, you're an activists for kids 
and families.  
 And then for the last five years I was the Director of Health and 
Human Services, which included medical clinics, juvenile justice, 
mental health, our poverty programs, our public health, an 
insurance company that ran. So it was a lot going on there. It was  
fun at the picnic that you guys just hosted. I saw people that 
worked for me. When I left, people that had moved on and people 
that I had helped or I had connected with jobs— actually I had 
somebody who came up to me and said, "I'm retired. I'm Tier One 
PERS, and thank you for giving me that opportunity." Because 
when I started I was young and there were jobs open and people 
say, "Do you know anybody? I got friends I know." There was this 
connection to my community where I have people got jobs.  
Raiskin:  What difference do you think it made to have lesbians involved in 
city and county governance?  
Hays:  I just think that perspective and you know, that perspective, 
inclusion of hearing the voice, hearing other people's voices of 
seeing the situations in different ways of even how we pace things. 
I mean, a lot of my management style and smarts, if you will, have 
come from collectives. Like when we're working on measures  or 
we're working on issues of discrimination, and just the connection. 
People will say to me when I started, "Oh, do you know somebody 
that could do that?” “Oh yeah, I know them from the community. 
We can connect them.” “Do you know somebody that can— “ They 
would say, “Do you know everybody?" Well,  there is this 
connection in Lane County.  
 I was surprised when I started as the department director. I got a 
lot of credibility because of my connections. We could get things 
done because I knew where people were and  I had these 
connections with these other women really mostly that were  
already in other government agencies that were from my 
community.  
Raiskin:  Do you feel a difference when you have exposure to other cities 
and County governance as you've moved around  and connected 
with other colleagues in the state or elsewhere. Is it different in 
Eugene and Lane County?  
Hays:  Yes. I think it is because when you go to conferences you start 
looking around and okay, who are the lesbians and you would 
connect with them and tell your story is about where you work and 
how things get done and they're surprised. They're like, "Oh that 
never happened." Eugene is— I'm sure other communities think 
they're unique. But Eugene is great. It's my connection to the 
lesbian community. My being a lesbian, my knowledge really has 
helped me get where I am in including my job as an elected official 
has really influenced how I see the world and how I get things 
done.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about being on the school board?  
Hays:  Sure. Let's see. I've been on the school board for twelve  years. I'm 
actually the chair right now of the 4J School Board. We have four 
high schools. We have about 20,000 students, four comprehensive 
high schools and an alternative high school. It's a big district. And 
right now I have been the  longest serving board member, which is 
important for some reason. I don't know why, but I like to share 
that.   
Shawn:  Means you can retire. 
Hays:  How do you take this district and where you see opportunities 
push a little bit? One of the things when I first started, I went to a 
national conference and it was the scariest time for me to be at this 
national conference because there were school board members 
from all over the U.S. and I had this sense of I feel like I'm back in 
the ‘60s, the ‘70s, around oppression of people who are gay and 
lesbian. The things that were said, the things that people felt they 
could talk about. There— I remember in this huge conference hall 
in San Francisco at the Moscone Center, you know,  where all the 
vendors go. It's just like— it would take you two days to get 
through it. That's how big the conferences is and finding— it was 
either  GLSEN— 
Shawn:  GLSEN. 
Hays:  GLSEN  and just saying, “Can I just sit here for a minute?” She says 
“There's one more of you.” And this is—  
Shawn:  Thousands.  
Hays:  Thousands of school board members from across the U.S. She said 
there’s  a gay man from, I don't know, somewhere. And he stopped 
by too. I should start a gay and lesbian caucus for school board 
members. But that's where you have a lot of influence. And in these 
communities across the U.S. they are very conservative people on 
school boards. There was one woman I got to know, she was from 
Texas and we went to a GLSEN presentation and at the end—  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what GLSEN is?  
Shawn:  Gay Lesbian Support Education Network.  
Raiskin: So it's national?  
Shawn:  It's a national organization supporting gay and lesbian students in 
public schools.  
Hays:  This woman and I had, she's from Texas, she was  black woman. I 
had walked back and forth from the conference that week-- we just 
happened to be at the same motel. I would show her how to get 
there every time. And anyway, we were both at this breakout 
session, this GLSEN  session, and they were talking about being 
inclusive of kids, but it was so far behind where we were at 4J. I 
was so surprised. 
Shawn:  It was pre  2001. 
Hays:  Yeah, I was really surprised. What surprised me  more as she was 
sitting in the back with me and she leaned forward and said to me,  
"Alicia, did you think this is what this workshop was going to be 
about?" And I said, "Yeah, I think so." She said, I thought it was 
going to help us understand how not to have our girls raped by 
lesbians in the bathroom." And I said, "Whoa. " Well, my first 
response was like, "I guarantee you, I've never done that.” And 
then I said— I just was dumbfounded. I was like how do I respond 
to this and how many other people are sitting in this room thinking 
something similar? This woman didn't, she came across very  
educated and fun to talk to, but this is— and that's when I was like, 
people need to run for their school boards. They absolutely need to. 
It has a huge impact on our future.  
Raiskin:  This was a strategy of the Tea Party, was to first get people on 
school boards.  
Shawn:  Right, exactly and they are still doing  it. 
Hays:  And they are. I had one when they had that strategy— I had one 
very contested school board race. It was very surprising to me. A 
guy raised like $20,000 to get my seat.  
Shawn:  —Eugene School Board. And he was sponsored by Tea Party— 
encouraged or—. 
Hays:  But I like to tell you I've won by 71  percent, but anyway— 
Shawn:  The highest percentage of— 
Hays:  The highest percentage of anybody running at that time. I'll just one 
more quick story, which was recently like two years ago, we put 
forward the first transgender policy in the state on our school 
board and we have on our school board, someone that was mayor 
of Eugene who actually had worked against the transgender policy 
at the City of Eugene  and had a lot of conversation around 
bathrooms, the usual. I wasn't sure how it was going to go for this. 
And as a school board, it's around good for the kids. So often we 
have 7-0 votes because everybody has the same motivation, what's 
best for the students.  
 But in the audience was packed, there had to be a hundred-plus 
young people coming to speak. And parents of kids that were 
first/second graders and talking about not using the bathroom in 
high school and not, and talking with their friends. We had such a 
robust public comment.  
Raiskin:  You mean there were students there who identified as trans talking 
about their difficulties at school?  
Hays:  And they identified as gay, lesbian.  
Shawn:  And they wouldn't drink all day, they wouldn't go to the— 
Hays:  Restroom and how they— and I remember as  [I don’t get] ??  get 
choked up very often, but I remember talking to them after they got 
done testifying. We all get a chance to talk and I really couldn't get 
much out. All I could say was, “Do you mind if I take your 
picture?” I have a very nice picture of this audience. And they did a 
great job and we were 7-0. And I think their testimony and the 
power that they brought and we see— so we as a school board in 
Eugene now people look to us around that policy and we've  played 
it out.  
Raiskin:  What is it the policy?  
Hays:  It's a long one, so— But I will tell you where it kind of— as we 
build new schools, as we retrofit schools  we're putting in restrooms 
that aren't gender specific, they're gender neutral, which I have to  
say as a person with a disability, as I was sharing with some of my  
board members, that's so important because oftentimes caregivers, 
if their person needs something as people get older with— are of 
the opposite sex and that causes problems as well. And people. 
And so we're putting those in. We have dealt with people, 
instructors who don't want to use the student— if the student 
identifies and wants a different name, wants  a name other than 
what's on their record or identifies and they have push-back on 
that, it's a policy, it's a requirement. We deal with those instructors 
and it's no longer just the students where— I'm hoping we're 
creating that next generation of activists. So we don't have to create 
them they're already there, I've seen them. And it's very powerful.  
Raiskin:  Well, and it’s  a model policy that can be used elsewhere.  
Shawn:  And other districts have already reached out for that and copied it.  
Hays:  Let me just share one more thing, which is, I talk about this national 
conference, school work conference, but we have a state school 
work conference and I just for fun, always go to the workshop on 
transgender youth and I listen to this and there was one of the 
school board members from Bethel who is a Republican, has been a 
Republican legislator who when she's in the room, I always just 
wait for her because she has transgender grandchildren and you 
don't expect it from her, but I like, "Okay you start and then I'll go" 
We'll do our little tag team on this. And it's just been just incredible, 
those watching that shift from where we were when we started in 
schools to this feeling, I believe that people can be out and it's not 
perfect and we still have a ways to go.   
Raiskin:  Can I talk to you about being parents? Can you tell us about your 
journey of parenthood?  
Shawn:  Well, we started trying to become parents in 1990. Well, we got 
married in the Unitarian Church in 1990 so it was sometime after 
that and we'd gotten together before.  
Raiskin:  And this was not a legal marriage?  
Shawn:  It was in the Unitarian Church. It was this civil union or whatever 
they call them at the time.  
Hays:  Just on the marriage thing. Adelka's family was there. My whole 
family was there, including my ninety-eight-year-old grandfather.  
Shawn:  Both of our families are incredibly supportive and have been there 
through all of our marriages. We started trying to get pregnant. I 
started trying to get pregnant in the ‘91, ‘92. And we  did a lot of 
research about how to become parents because we wanted to 
become parents and we initially looked at adoption. But in order to 
adopt we would have had to lie and say I was adopting as a single 
parent or that she was and we weren't willing to lie. We did sign up 
to be foster parents through the state and went through that whole 
process and were approved and had requested elementary age 
children to foster. And we were on the list for over a year and they 
never called us until they had a teenage gay child who had been 
kicked out of their home.  
Hays:  If you remember. What we got told.   
Shawn:  Right. 
Hays:  Our person made no bones about it. She said there is an unwritten 
policy in the foster care program that if we place a child in  a gay or 
lesbian home, we ask  the parents.  
Shawn:  Their permission.  
Hays:  Their permission.  
Shawn:  The parents who've  lost custody  got to choose whether or not 
children came to us.  
Hays:  Do they get to choose if there's a religious preference do they try 
but do the parents get to say no. 
Shawn:  They get— 
Hays:  No, this is the only thing and it's not written. You can't really argue 
with that.  
Shawn:  So, then we decided to have our own, and so we used— we didn't 
use a medical model. We used a renegade insemination system 
where we found a donor through channels. So our donor, we used 
the same donor as some really good friends of ours, the final donor 
who— we had gone through two donors?  
Hays:  One other one.  
Shawn:  One other one. And I tried to get pregnant for eighteen  months and 
wasn't able to. And then I had tried with this donor who was the  
same one our good friends used  and [they] became pregnant. And 
they said to us, "Hey, this worked for us." And it was— they had 
also been challenged by getting pregnant. And do you want to 
create family with us? And we did. After we realized I wasn't going 
to get pregnant, Alicia's mother was right.  
Hays:  Well, I had a deal that we'd do for eighteen  months and I must  
admit  I was praying towards the end, “Please get pregnant.” 
Shawn:  First time.  
Hays:  I tried it and I got pregnant the first time in—  
Raiskin:  And your mother knew that would be the case?  
Hays:  I don't know. I think she just scared all the girls. "Just be careful out 
there."  
Shawn:  So, Alicia got pregnant and Jackson was born in December of 1993.  
When  he was born the Register-Guard— the nurse comes in and 
takes your birth certificate information and then goes to send stuff 
to the Register-Guard  and asks for the names. And we sent our 
names in and in fact, I think we even said to her, “They’re probably 
not even going to take my name” because we knew they didn't do 
that at the time.  
Raiskin:  They had a policy? What was the policy?  
Shawn:  The Register-Guard  policy was, they only put married— no it wasn't 
married people.   
Hays:  Birth parents.  
Shawn:  Birth parents.  
Hays:  Which we knew wasn't true because I had friends that were 
straight and who were using artificial insemination.  
Shawn:  They said it was because they were birth parents, but really it was 
because they were heterosexual parents. So— but the woman at the 
hospital was like, "Oh, I’ll  put it in. I'm sure they'll do it."  You 
know, how people are.  
Hays:  And at that point we had the choice because Adelka’s name could 
have passed.  
Shawn:  Right.  
Hays:  And so, just leave her as the “father” and that it would be in or to 
say, okay, sure, let's take this, what the heck, let's take this 
challenge.  
Shawn:  The birth announcement came out and it only listed Alicia Hays. 
And we did not appreciate that  in the least.  I have a letter from the 
Register-Guard  saying what their policy is. And—  
Hays:  And when you're a new parent, you're kind of busy. And being an 
activist and a new parent isn't something you do, but your 
community comes through.  
Shawn:  Yes they do.   
Hays:  And Sally Sheklow  said, "Do you want me?"  
Shawn:  "Is there anything I can do?" And we said "Yes, could you deal with 
Register-Guard  for us?" And she did. She  approached them and 
said— talk to them about their rule. It didn't change. We didn't get 
a birth announcement. A number of years later, I don't remember 
‘99, I think.  
Raiskin:  It was 2000-something.  
Shawn:  Oh was it? A very active group of people got together and lobbied 
the Register-Guard  about this policy because it was still in effect. 
You still weren't able to have both parents’ names in the paper. 
And took out an ad in the Register-Guard  with birth 
announcements. And  we included Jackson and I have a picture of 
that, you guys may have one.  
Raiskin:  It was retroactive.  
Shawn:  Was a retroactive birth announcements.  
Raiskin:  Everybody who hadn't been able to be—  
Shawn:  Everybody who signed up for this because there were,  who knows 
how many of us there were. But there were, how many in the 
article? Maybe six or eight or ten. And so we did a retroactive birth 
announcement that we had to pay for as an ad in the Register-
Guard. And there was a big demonstration, lots of people canceled 
their— what  do you call it?   
Hays:  Subscription.  
Shawn:  Subscription to the Register-Guard. 
Raiskin:  Because?  
Shawn:  Because during this action that some lesbians took against the 
Register-Guard  and whatever this year was 20, 2001 or whatever. 
The Register-Guard  didn't change their policy and the reaction was 
lots of people canceled their subscriptions. Now the Register-Guard  I 
believe does put both names in. The other thing about having 
Jackson was I wasn't able to be on  his birth certificate. We went 
through an adoption process with a local attorney and spent a lot of 
money and a lot of time. I had to have a home study. I had to write 
an autobiography and do the whole home study in order to adopt 
my son. And that— people who came just a year or two after us did 
the same thing, but the process was way different. That has 
changed over time. But I had to adopt him.  
Hays:  We paced ourselves because the judge, the juvenile judge at the 
court in Eugene was pretty clear he wasn't going to okay it. We had  
friends that went up to another county. 
Shawn:  Portland  or someplace. 
Hays:  Because they could see that judge. And then when he retired, that's 
when— "Okay, let's do this." Because, and I just think back just in 
his lifetime and who’s sitting on the now at the juvenile court is 
lesbian judge. Just how much things have changed and in just what  
seems like a short period of time, I know when you're in it 
struggling, it doesn't seem like a short period.  
Shawn:  But looking back— he's twenty-four  now and things have changed 
a lot, a whole lot and he brought us a whole new set of 
opportunities for activism because in 19— his sister Bailey was in 
the Spanish immersion program.  
Long:  This is the child raised by, who was conceived by your friends?  
Shawn:  Yes. She won  in the lottery. In Eugene we— there's a lottery for 
some of the special schools, what do you call them?  
Hays:  Choice schools, immersion schools.  
Shawn:  Choice schools, immersion schools. And there's a sibling policy. If 
your sibling gets in for  one of those schools, then the siblings get to 
come in before they do the lottery for the remaining spots. But they 
did not accept Jackson  as a sibling at that time. We appealed that 
process and did a whole process with the school district and had 
somebody come in and Patrick Fraleigh  who was a school psych, 
but also a private psychologist at the time, came and did a whole 
assessment and said to them, "Yeah, they’re a family.  This ought to 
be overturned."  
Hays:  They are siblings.  
Shawn:  They are siblings and— 
Raiskin:  So the two couples are also interact as family?   
Shawn:  Yes. 
Hays:  It was more than they were siblings.  
Shawn:  It was more that the kids were siblings.  
Hays:  Because the same thing can happen if you have steps, brother and 
sister.  
Shawn:  If somebody moves into your house they wanted to make the 
decision based on where you lived. So if Jackson had lived with her 
no matter what the relationship was he would have been able to go 
to the school. If they had been siblings in the school district’s eyes, 
they would have been able to go. So we had to go through that. 
Again, another opportunity and— 
Hays:  Always fun to be an activist with the place you work.  
Shawn:  Yeah.  
Hays:  Good times.  
Shawn:  Very good. And then during the measures, Jackson was going to 
his school and his kindergarten teacher lived right next door to the 
school and had “One man, one woman, No on—. 
Hays:  Whatever it was.  
Shawn:  Whichever measure it was in her signs. 
Long:  Measure 36.   
Shawn:  —in her yard, he had to walk by it to go into her classroom. He 
remembers that more. But he actually just brought that up not long 
ago. Then there was the Boy Scouts issue and then there was— 
Raiskin:  Tell us about  the Boy Scouts issue.  
Shawn:  Well, for those of you who don't remember, it wasn't that long ago 
that the Boy Scouts would not let any gay or lesbian people be 
participants on any level volunteers, staff or members of the Scouts. 
And so being in the Boy Scouts was never going to be an option for 
Jackson and— didn’t meet or match our family  values. And there 
were some of his good friends in his classroom, more Cub Scouts.  
One of his best friend's dad was the Cub Scout leader. There was 
already some tension around that. And then he came home one day 
with a, "I want to join the Cub Scouts" sticker on his shirt. They had 
touched my child. That's when they kind of went over— Because at 
that point they were able to come into the cafeteria or come into the 
school and do recruiting. And so that didn't— 
Hays:  At the time people I knew that were working at doing human 
rights works and were on the equity committee for 4J, were looking 
at that policy and they were holding a public meeting. I remember 
going there. I share that with people that get nervous when they 
have to come and testify in front of the  school board. I said, "Let me 
tell you, I remember being there." And I testified and said that  I 
used to joke about letting my kid be a Boy Scout— both my 
brothers are Eagles. My dad was, and so it's kind of a family 
tradition and that it would be a great  for me because when they  
said, "Hey, we need a den mother" I'd say, "Hey, not me. I'm a 
lesbian. You guys do the work." "Hey, we need somebody to bring 
to—" "Hey, not me. “Help with the soapbox derby."  "Hey, sorry, 
can't do it" I said. So, it was all funny until it happened.  
 And I realized what this meant to my kid, that he at five years old, 
six years old, was now going to have to deal with this, that he 
hadn't really had to deal with. And that what was hard about them 
being in the schools was that when we talked to Jackson and we 
had to explain to him why he couldn't join Travis and all the other 
boys because of who his family was and that they didn't like his 
family and they didn't think we should be a family. He looked at 
me and said, "Do my teachers  feel the same way?" Because he was 
five or six, he couldn't understand these people that were in the 
schools weren't the same as his teachers. And did he have to worry 
about his teachers.  
 And I talked later to my friend who ran it and he goes, "That 
statement was so powerful to us that the district said “No more 
recruiting." And unfortunately what they did is they said, "No 
more recruiting of anybody.” And I think sometimes you have to 
deal with that pendulum and then you can bring it back to the 
center. And because I'm a Girl Scout. I mean, I was crossing, I grew 
up as a Girl Scout and the Girl Scouts don't do that. And people 
didn't understand that the Girl Scouts and the Boy Scouts were 
different. Kidsports  doesn't do that.  
Shawn:  Right. They follow the  same guidelines.   
Hays:  Everybody got nixed.  And  slowly they came up with their policy. I 
I felt like it was really clear: if you discriminate, you can't be part of 
us. Will they discriminate so they can be part of the district. But 
that's not how it turned out. But it's worked through. And Jackson 
still has those feelings about Boy Scouts.  
 One of his best friends family were Boy Scouts and they took 
Sam— they're still good friends. Sam was devastated when Jackson 
left town, but I remember them telling us the story of taking Sam 
aside and saying, "You can stay with Boy Scouts, but this is what 
they think about  Jackson's family, and Sam's, you know, first grade 
crying. "Okay, I don't want to belong, but can I keep the hat?" So 
we've got these kids. And I remember sharing that story with 
parents who when they were protesting about the CALC  photo 
exhibit that were coming into the schools where people, I think 
they were doing— we did one, I know we were part of, “This is 
What Family Looks Like.” 
 This one was— I can't remember. It was on discrimination and one 
of the pictures had somebody coming out. It's trans or something I 
can't remember exactly.  
Shawn:  It was a trans— 
Hays:  But obviously very upset parents, their parents were very upset. 
And the whole  thing was, "I don't want to have to explain this to 
my kid." And I would say, "Well congratulations that you haven't 
had to talk about it, but if your kid went to school with my kid,  
they're going to know. And it's just part of where we're headed. 
And let me tell you, it isn't easy when you're the one having to 
explain to your kid why people don't like your family."  
 I remember my— on that front  he always heard that. He was at my 
father's house who had a Republican National Committee magnet 
on his fridge.  And I remember Jackson at about seven looking at 
my father and saying, "Grandpa, how come you support an 
organization that doesn't support my family?" And my father just 
looking at him and saying, "I didn't know they didn't, I'll look into 
that Jackson." So, he's been a little bit of an activist.  
Shawn:  He had a time in the lunchroom. He was probably third or fourth 
grade and he was talking, he was just talking about something that 
happened at home and he was talking about, it's moms, or— and 
the lunch lady. He referred to her as the lunch lady. One of the 
people who was working in the cafeteria advised him that he 
would do better if he just didn't talk about his family at school. 
That was one of the many times we got to go in and see his 
principal who, fortunately, she was great and handled all that stuff 
really well.  
Hays:  And told him he got to speak about his family and I remember him 
looking at her and saying, "I understand I'm not going to get to 
know what's going to happen because this is a personnel  issue and 
I don't get to know." All right. It's good to see.  He gets some 
management stories when he goes to bed.   
Raiskin:  Do you think his strong feelings have something to do with his 
tattoo?  
Shawn:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Can you describe his tattoo?  
Shawn:  Well, his tattoo story. We were on a vacation and he had just 
turned eighteen. 
Hays:  He graduated from high school.  
Shawn:  Graduated from high school and he was eighteen  and we came 
home and he was just proud and pleased and excited to show us.  
Hays:  Had his girlfriend there and his friends there to show us his tattoo.  
Shawn:  And it's on over his heart and it's an anatomically correct, quite 
anatomically correct according to our scientist-sisters. And it says 
"Moms” on it.  It's an amazing tattoo and it's very well done, very 
artistic. But we're not big tattoo fans, particularly Alicia.  
Hays:  To my response was, “I hope to hell that is fake.”  
Shawn:  And he was just— he was a little crushed because he thought our 
reaction would be different. I love the sentiment. I love the tattoo 
now, but it was shocking at the time.  
Hays:  Well then I also think it’s like this part where, okay, and he knew 
this, you as a white straight man get to be in the world and not deal  
with this. But every time you take— you are a part of  this 
community. And I that's one of the things he wanted.  
Shawn:  And I think that he wanted to be about that.  
Hays:  We aren't always the best as parents, but we like it now when he 
points that out to me. "Still hate the tattoo, Mom?"  
Shawn:  He feels very— I won't speak for him, but he does— well, I will a 
little bit, but not too much. He feels very blessed to have been 
raised in the lesbian community. He has so many aunties that like 
when we had his going away party, when he went to grad school, it 
was his aunties. I want my aunties here. He's very aware of the  
blessings of the community and I'm grateful for that. And he's a 
straight white guy who plays rugby not rugby, lacrosse and 
football, and he's been very much his own person.  
Hays:  One quick story more about Jackson that was pretty funny about 
being raised in the community was, his girlfriend who we love and 
everybody would do anything for— buy a new tire for her car. We 
explained to him.  
Shawn:  Lesbian community when you break up you keep your girlfriends.  
Hays:  We told them that, if we know them, they'll be part of our life. She 
has been, and they went to  junior prom, senior prom through 
college and then they broke up and we were devastated. But 
anyway recently she wrote him last Christmas.  
Shawn:  Right on his birthday, right before Christmas.   
Hays:  —on his birthday and came out to him. And questioning. I don't 
know that I would say she's over here in the lesbian camp yet, 
although I have faith. But, we were vacationing with them and 
we're here, they talk a lot and she has moved to a bigger city and I 
hear him explaining the lesbian culture to her and I was cracking 
up I wanted to get on the phone and go, "Don't believe him. He's 
explaining 1980s lesbian culture.  I'm sure it's different 
now.”[laughs].  And we have had a chance, we visit with her when 
we go to Seattle and she's very sweet and she— we were actually 
telling her about this project and that it was kind of painful to be 
called elders. So she takes a picture of all three of us and I think on 
Snapchat.  
Shawn:  Instagram.  
Hays:  Instagram puts "Hanging with the elders." So, it's been— we 
always say, “You date your mom,” so I guess he did.  
Raiskin:  Have you both retired?  
Shawn: Yes. 
Hays:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And what are you doing now? And how is that for you?  
Shawn:  It's great. I highly recommend it. We're traveling a lot, doing a lot 
of projects on the house. Because one of us really likes to do that 
kind of stuff a lot. And so we're traveling a lot and Jackson just  
started grad school, so we're going to go visit him there. It's very 
different having him completely out of town.  
Raiskin:  Where is he?  
Shawn:  He's in Washington, D. C. attending George Washington 
University.  
Raiskin:  What is he studying?  
Shawn:  Security policy studies, focus at this point on national and trans-
national security.  
Hays:  And he is fluent in Spanish, thanks to getting to go to Buena Vista.  
Shawn:  And he's doing an internship in Senator Wyden’s office. He's living 
the dream.  
Hays:  He did say that he has finally met some intelligent Republicans and 
he said, "Don't worry mom, I'm not converting." They have some 
good points. It's great  I would love you to hear because we need 
more people that can listen to both sides. But he does love to travel 
internationally and we've had the blessing to get to do that with 
him.  
Shawn:  We have a lot of travel plans and a lot of settling in plans during 
our retirement years.  
Raiskin:  I know you're not really there yet, but have you thought about 
aging in Eugene or what kind of—  
Shawn:  Well, one thing we know— we have a 2,400 square foot house with 
a half-acre yard, which is just way more than we need or I want at 
this point. We're very clear that we're going to be downsizing and 
looking at places in the next ten years or so, five years, ten years 
where we will downsize, but we'll want to stay close to community 
and close to where we are in our neighborhood.  
Raiskin:  And are you still tight with lesbian community? 
Shawn:  Yeah, I think so. That's where we spend our time.  
Hays:  When you have a kid, all of a sudden I was just chatting with 
somebody who's got a kindergarten or, and I said, "You'll find 
yourself vacationing with straight couples. It's going to be weird for 
a while, but you'll get used to it and they'll remain your friends." 
Raiskin:  And that's because your children are friends? 
Shawn:  Friends,  right. And so your social life kind of becomes around 
soccer and school and all those activities. But we've always had our 
close knit community of lesbians that have been throughout even 
then. But most of our social life for many years was around his age 
mates and their families.  
Hays:  And it's great because that has changed as well. I have a  friend 
who, a very good friend.  She meets a new couple in town and she'll 
like, "Okay, I've got to connect you to Alicia and Adelka." Because 
if you're new to town and you are a lesbians so— it's just  amusing 
how that kind of spreads out. And some of the things that those  
straight couples have learned about discrimination that they didn't 
believe existed. But  they started seeing in the schools and started 
seeing for us as a family.  
Raiskin:  When you were challenging the schools on policies, did you have 
support of a lesbian parenting group or anything like that?  
Shawn:  Not a structured one. We have a group of friends who are parents 
of similar aged kids. And so we're always part of that community. 
But it wasn't like a structured group per se.  
Hays:  We joined a group before we got pregnant, Happy Lesbian Couples 
Group. And some of us are still happy. Some of us aren't. Some 
folks are couples, some of us aren't. But— 
Shawn:  About a third of them— some of us had kids at the same time.  
Long:  So what was the focus of that group?  
Hays:  I still don't know. Ask Adelka . I went.  
Shawn:  Alicia went because it was not kind of her thing, but it was really 
just an opportunity for lesbian couples to get together and talk 
about what challenges maybe that were specific to us, we were 
facing.  Holidays  were always an issue. Less for us. I mean, we have 
families, if we go to Pocatello or wherever for Christmas, we didn't 
face challenges of having to hide or straighten up the house or any 
of that stuff. But those kinds of issues that lesbian couples face and 
so we were just able— we talked about it. Deb Landforce was the 
facilitator.  
Hays:  And Karm. 
Shawn:  And Karm. 
Hays:  Hagedorn. And that's actually where I met Karm  and Sheryl  
because I remember they— I'm talking about having a kid and it 
was kind of one of the first times I ever really delved into what 
would that mean and challenging them about, "You really want to 
bring a kid into this community, into this world. And what does 
that mean for them and burden of being a child of—" 
Shawn:  I forgot that's where you met them. I had met them before that 
because I was one of the first members of Soromundi  and then I 
didn't stay.  
Raiskin:  The Lesbian Chorus?  
Shawn:  The Lesbian Chorus of Eugene. But I didn't remember that's where 
you had first met them, was there.  
Hays:  I hope they don't remember that I actually was like, "Why would 
you do that?"  
Shawn:  That's a good question. I mean, because you aren’t bringing  a kid 
into easiness, necessarily.  
Hays:  Right. And what would that mean for your child? He's handled it 
well. And it's just funny how  it changes you. Just being a parent, 
you're all of a sudden dealing with things you didn't deal with  
before, like as an activist I wasn't dealing with the schools. But now 
that I have a kid, I'm dealing with the schools. 
Raiskin:  What's his relationship with his sister?  
Shawn:  They're very close. 
Hays:  They recently— well he's moved on to grad school. She's moved on 
to grad school, but before that they were living together.  
Shawn:  For the first time in their lives.  
Hays:  Right. I don't think that was a good idea.  
Shawn:  It was a really a good arrangement for them to be siblings that 
didn't live together because they're very different from each other. 
In their  particularly just kind of their sensibility about what a house 
might look like when you're living in it. And, lots of other ways. 
She's an  introvert. He's an extrovert. She's always known what she 
wanted to do. He's always like been open to the possibilities.  
Hays:  But it's fun.  
Shawn:  When they were kids, like when we would go like we took trips 
together, the six of us like to Disneyland and he was— she'd be the 
one going [pats] and he'd go be the one to interact with Pluto on 
behalf of both of them, talked to— 
Raiskin:  He was younger?   
Shawn:  Yeah, he's a year younger than her, but he was the one who'd made 
all the social connections and she  was the one doing all the 
planning and thinking behind the scenes.  
Hays:  Yes. He also would tell us that he would go into classes and say, 
"I'm nothing like my sister. She's the smart one."  
Shawn:  She's the kind of student that teachers love to have and he's the 
kind of— and they're both very smart. They're both very 
competent, smart kids. But she's the one who follows all the rules. 
And schools are built for people like Bailey and Jackson is more the 
hands on active, interested in just what he's interested in, kind of 
guy. He wanted to make sure they knew, don't expect me to act like 
Bailey because I'm very different.  
Raiskin:  Do they know their donor?  
Shawn:  They do know their donor. We ended up with the donor that for 
them was once removed from the person who brought that 
donation.  
Raiskin:  What do you mean?  
Shawn:  They knew the person who brought—  
Hays:  The intermediary.  
Shawn:  The intermediary. Thank you. That's a better word. But they didn't 
know the donor. And then when we used the same donor, I don't 
think we even know who their intermediary was, because she  
would give the donation to Karm and  Sheryl and they would 
deliver it to us. And we didn't have any intention of having a 
relationship with him, but he was willing for the kids to meet him 
when  they were older. And that was important to us. But we didn't 
know who he was. We didn't know anything about him. But the 
intermediary was connected with Karm and Sheryl, and when the 
kids were at eight and nine ish they all got kind of caught up in this 
idea or excited about this idea of meeting.  
 The kids did meet. We had— first we talked to our attorney, had a 
family meeting about what it means, met with him before he met 
the kids and talked about what kind of the parameters and 
agreements were, like  he was a donor, not a father. And he was 
great. He was respectful of anything we asked for and followed 
through on all those agreements.  
 We had a couple of large or largish family gatherings and then 
there were times when he was around and the, kids got to meet 
him.  
Hays:  He had grown kids of his own.  
Raiskin:  Why did he decide to be a donor?  
Hays:  Well, what I remember him telling me was that his mother had 
passed and he ended up in the foster care system for a little while 
and then he had children of his own and he just really appreciated 
being a parent and that he thought if he could help someone be a  
parent because it was a really wonderful part of his life that he 
would do that.  
Long:  Was the donation done through the auspices of an organization or 
is it just through word of mouth and how was that?  
Shawn:  In terms of how it  functionally worked, the donor would provide a 
donation in a small container and give it to his friend who gave it 
to her friend who gave it to us in a matter of forty-five minutes. Is  
that what you mean?  
Hays:  Are you asking like how did we find them?  
Long:  Like how did a donor become a donor?  
Hays:  So, we had a donor that we knew and we sat down and ask and 
talk to him and did a legal agreement and our attorney said, "You 
should pay  for this because right now in the courts, that might hold 
up if he came back. And said, no, I'm the father, I want to have 
rights." We did the best all what she told us.  
Shawn:  She said, "This will not hold up, but you've already done it."  
Hays:  She said,  “If you're going to do it, this is the best I can offer.” We 
did that and then we didn't get pregnant, didn’t get pregnant.  So, I 
know that for the donor that we did get pregnant with, that his 
friend had approached Karm and Sheryl, that are you still trying 
because if you are, I know this person that might be willing if 
you're looking. And instead of going frozen, just to do a donor. So 
they had that relationship and so that's their story.   
Shawn:  That was a friend of theirs who knew someone.  
Hays:  Right.  What happened with us is they knew we'd been trying, they 
knew it wasn't working with this donor and it may not work. And 
they came and sat down and said, "What do you think about a new 
way to create family and would you be interested? We have this 
donor,  we're using, would you be interested in."  
Shawn:  He's a friend of the friend of – 
Hays:  Right. Using the same donor. So our kids would be siblings. And 
we said yes and they got pregnant and then a year later we got 
pregnant.  
Shawn:  So that was— 
Hays:  That's the story as best I can tell it.  
Shawn:  Then we had a gathering with him, his name is Dennis and his wife 
and our families. The six of us. We didn't say who these guys were, 
just here’s  some friends of ours. And then we felt comfortable 
enough with the setting that we did tell the kids that, that's who 
their father was, their donor. And they had good relationship with 
him. He was— like I said, he was always very respectful of all the 
boundaries. In fact, he came to watch a flag football game that 
Jackson  was at one time. And our good friends, the same— the Cub 
Scout family we were talking about, the one who was the dad of 
the kid who quit Cub Scouts, met him and he was so excited to 
meet him. He said, "So you're a Jackson's father." And Dennis said,  
"I'm the donor." And we're like, and Mark was being— Mark was 
just excited and whatever. But Dennis was very respectful and 
knew exactly his role and he was very excited to meet the kids and 
thrilled with how they were turning out.  
Hays:  Unfortunately, Dennis has passed away. I'm glad we didn't wait till 
they were eighteen. 
Shawn:  Because he passed about when they were about that.  
Raiskin:  Is there something we haven't hit on that's important to know 
about?  
Shawn:  I was thinking, one of the stories that I was remembering in my 
preparation for remembering dates was, when I was involved with 
the Rape Crisis Network back in the late '70s, early '80s. There was 
Take Back the Night march. It was 1979 or something, I think it was 
the first one. Some people have said at a later date was the first one, 
but I don't have any documentation. But it was when I was first 
getting involved in the lesbian community and I was kind of 
anxious about that, what would it look like, like, am I going to be 
with all these dykes and  is it going to be scary? We did the march 
and at the end of the march we ended up at Condon School, which 
is now whatever.  
Hays:  Condon School.  
Shawn:  And we were in the auditorium and I just remember just being 
surrounded by all these women who I thought I would be afraid of  
and not being afraid. And then one of the organizers, I can't 
remember who it was said, “And now we'll all go to that bar we 
know about.” And nobody said the name and because at that time, 
we used codes all the time and going to the Riv Room that night 
and, yeah, anyway.  
Raiskin:  But the Pride  Celebration here that you are involved with.  
Shawn:  What year was that? Nineteen eighty-one. 
Hays:  No. 
Shawn:  There was one in 1981 that I vaguely remember. But then in 1992— 
Hays:  No, because  Jacks wasn't born. Jill and the group of us to play ball 
together. And I remember Jill Sager saying,  "I can't believe Eugene 
doesn't have a pride celebration." And so we thought, that's a good 
idea. And of course we have friends who worked for the city who 
could get us the rec center and people that were in the choir that 
could perform. And it kind of reminded me of a Judy Garland, 
Mickey Rooney, “My mom could make the costumes and we can 
have the show in the barn and we'll save Sparky the wonder dog!” 
That was kind of what it was like. And then the next year we did it 
again, only bigger and it had food cards. I mean, the first year it 
was soda. I remember. I'm like, "Okay, I'll do the food, we'll  put 
soda in a cooler." When we went to Pride this year, which was so 
diverse from what we have seen and so many young people that it 
was fun. It's fun to see it kind of morph and grow.   
Raiskin:  If you could imagine a young person watching this video and 
learning about your history, is there something  you would tell 
them about the history or about advice for their own lives?  
Shawn:  Well, I think Linda said it best. We don't know our past— 
Hays:  We don't know our past.  
Shawn:  —we don't know where we're going. And I think it's pretty clear 
where we're trying to go as a community and as— and I'm hopeful 
that we keep going. It's a little hard to feel hopeful in this political 
climate in 2018.  
Hays:  I would say, as I look to the future, I'm not even sure what that will 
look  like. That's exciting. And  when I listened to these young 
people who are out and are out at school and are having these 
impact, it's powerful. I also, it's hard because I was recently talking 
to a mother whose daughter is trans and she didn't want to go to  
certain schools. I'm still like how do we not just have this island 
amongst that is safe, but everywhere is safe. So that you want to 
protect that kid. You want to go, don't just go there where it's all 
good, but then what we just giving up and I think there's good 
there as well is just not the same form.  
Shawn:  Right.  
Hays:  I do worry about slipping back. I don't think people understand 
what it means not to be able to be married. It's huge. We pay more  
in taxes now, but we don't have to have all the paperwork, we're 
married. We never thought we'd see that in our lifetime.  
Shawn:  When the activists first started talking about marriage equality, I 
literally said, "Why don't we work on something achievable? 
Because that's not going to happen.” And in our lifetime it 
happened.  I think that, aiming high and sticking with the— 
Hays:  I also think— so when I see people doing that, what's safe here I 
think, am I doing that? What's safe being here in Eugene? I’ve  had 
the opportunity to travel internationally. I've done trainings on 
being an activist around disability rights in the Middle East.  
 And I remember making the conscious choice not to come out and 
to almost coming out and somebody warning me, "Don't do it. Not 
here, don't do it.” We were in Jordan and we had people from 
Afghanistan, Iraq and Israel and all of it in there. And I think, okay, 
do I have that responsibility? Where do I sit back here in my 
retirement? Or where is that responsibility to move it forward. It's 
not just even a responsibility. It's kind  of fun.  
 It's great to see those changes, to live those changes. And so while I 
looked locally about making sure every school is safe. I look 
nationally about, what about these communities and then of course, 
internationally for— and really being willing to look at what's 
happening in countries. And also think how much I lost. I've lost all 
those relationships because I wasn't who I was.   
 I was invited to a lot of people's homes, “Oh, come vacation with us 
come here.” All these people I spend time with and I just had to cut 
them out because I wasn't out. And they— I couldn't have them in 
my life because they couldn't know who I was. And I wasn't going 
to come vacation with them without my family, but my family 
wasn't safe. So, where do we go from here?  
Shawn:  Just a reminder.  
Hays:  We may be retired. We got a lot left in us so we’re  trying to figure, I 
think out where that next place is, where we can have a little more 
than what we are doing.  
Raiskin: Thank you so much.  
Long:  Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  