 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Pat Shirley and Maureen 
McCauley on September 7, 2018, taking place in the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ recording studio  in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries' Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality studies. Pat and 
Maureen, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project, and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Shirley:  Yes. 
McCauley:  Yes.  
Long:  Thank you. So let's start with a basic question. I'll start with Pat 
first. Please tell us where you were born, when and where you 
were born, where you grew up, and something about your early 
background.  
Shirley:  I was born in Glendale, California, but only lived there for about a 
year. We moved around a lot and eventually ended up— so early 
childhood was in Connecticut and then later childhood and high 
school was outside of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Something about 
my early childhood. Well, my family had a bit of chaos going on, so 
I relied on friends a lot as my base, and I remember my mother 
used to worry because I played with the boys too much, and as I 
got older she worried because I played with the girl too much. Like, 
“Don't you have any male friends, Pat?” So, it would just kind of— 
turned around like that.  
Long:  What year were you born?  
Shirley:  Fifty-four.  
Long:  And Maureen, how about you?  
McCauley:  I was born in 1956, in Alexandria, Virginia, and my dad was in the 
army, and so we moved like every three years. I lived in Virginia, 
Germany, South Carolina, Texas, and then when I started high 
school my dad retired to South Carolina, so I ended up spending all  
of my high school and college in South Carolina. And I have two 
brothers, and I had a great childhood. We lived on army bases most 
of the time, and so there was access to a lot of activities and a lot of 
kids, and I went to Catholic school almost my entire childhood. I 
think kindergarten and first grade in Germany I didn't because 
there was not one available, but other than that, all the way 
through high school, I went to Catholic school, so— 
Raiskin:  Are both your parents Catholic? 
McCauley:  Both my parents were Catholic, and I come from a very Irish 
Catholic family.  
Raiskin: So what was your temperament like as a kid?  
McCauley:  I was pretty active, just— living on army bases, I had access to all 
kinds of sports activities, and I would take full advantage of that, 
and I had two brothers and so— They were older, they weren't 
going to play any games that I wanted to play, so I had to play 
every game they wanted to play, so I just pretty much threw myself 
into any sports that was available. I remember growing up we had 
a good time all the time, pretty much. The only chaos was the 
moving part, but that was— it was normal for me, so it was kind of 
exciting.  
Raiskin: Was it hard to leave friends when you'd go from place to place? 
McCauley:  When I was— I think the hardest was like after second, third, and 
fourth grade, it was— I was in South Carolina, and we lived off— 
base there. That was the only place we lived off-base, and so that 
was the hardest, but then it ended up that we went back to South 
Carolina after Texas. And I think we went back there because my 
parents also had friends that were off-base.  
 When we lived on base, it wasn't that hard to leave friends because 
friends were leaving all the time, so there wasn't any continuity of 
people but there was always lots and lots of kids, so one family 
would move and another family would move in, so it was— That 
was just common.  
Raiskin: Pat, what kind of kid were you? Thinking about middle school, 
high school.  
Shirley:  I was pretty rebellious. I was kind of angry at home, and happy 
around— happy-acting around my friends, and— A little bit on the 
wild side. When you said you went to Catholic school, my parents 
used to threaten me with Catholic school if I didn't shape up. 
“We're going to have to send you to Catholic school if you don't get 
this together.” I was very gregarious and relied on humor a lot. It 
was a bit of a double life, because things were hard at home, but I 
had— my friends were such a safety net, and that's kind of— that's 
where my life was. That, and we had a family dog and everyone— 
the dog was a cohesive factor of our family. No matter what was 
going on, oh my gosh, we loved that dog and could always group 
around the dog.  
Long:  What was the dog's name?   
Shirley:  Butch. How about that? Now that I think about it.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a sense of yourself as a lesbian in high school?  
Shirley:  No. I didn't, but looking back, it all makes sense. And I didn't 
because it was never— I had no context for it. No one talked  about 
it, it wasn't— I had no exposure to it, so it just wasn't an idea. I had 
no idea you could do that, and I remember when— my first kiss 
with a woman, which wasn't too long after high school, I just 
looked at her and said, “We can do this?” And she said, “Yeah.” I 
said, “Ahhh.” And it was— that’s  it, “Oh, this is me.” And she went 
on to struggle with her sexuality, but I was like, “This is it. This is 
what was— this makes everything make sense.”  
Raiskin:  Did you date boys in high school?  
Shirley:  Not too much. I had very— a lot of camaraderie, kind of like this 
kind of friends  [pats Maureen on the back]. Dating, no, it was more 
like buddies. Any dating was really awkward, and it was like, 
“This is ridiculous.” Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What about you, Maureen?  
McCauley:  Yeah, I— in high school I had a sense that I had crushes on girls, 
and not on boys, but again, like Pat said, I had no context for that at 
all. There was no discussion about gay and lesbians, except for the 
was one boy at our high school, who, people say, “Well, he's gay.” 
And that was sort of the end of the conversation, really.   
 And I didn't date in high school, but I had like a best friend that 
was a boy, and so that was like always a great sort of, I would say 
cover in a way, because I  kind of knew I had crushes on girls, but 
he was like my best friend and we did everything together, so it 
was very comfortable in high school in that way, because I had 
Steve all the time. But we were just buddies. And then, it was really 
in college, my freshman year at college, that I kind of figured out, 
“Oh,” that there were women who just like woman, and that there 
was quite a few of them at college.  
Raiskin:  And what year was that, that you went to college?  
McCauley:  1974.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember reading anything or seeing anything about 
lesbians in that time?  
McCauley:  Never. Yeah, I would say not at all.  
Raiskin:  And what did you do after high school?  
Shirley:  I went to college, but I was thinking language is so powerful. I can 
look back and see all the crushes I had in high school, and I 
remember like sitting in the backseat of the car as we're riding 
somewhere and there's Carol sitting next to Billy and boy, I really 
adored Carol and I wish I was sitting next to her, but I had no way 
to think about it, and so I didn't consider it a crush at the time.  
 It was just feelings that were there, but without any definition, I 
guess, and it's— if you don't have the words for it, it's just amazing.  
I went to a small college for a year and got very close to my 
roommate, and we were unusually affectionate, but again, I didn't 
really have words for that.  
 And the summer after my first year, I was quite an immature 
nineteen-year-old, took me quite a while to grow up, and I went 
to— My mother said, “Why don't you stay with your sister,” who 
was very responsible, “for the summer?” And I said, “Okay.” And 
as soon as I— the first night  there is when this woman kissed me, 
and I went, “Woo!” And it was a great summer.  
 I couldn't wait to get back to my second year of college, where we 
transferred to South Carolina, and tell my roommate, “Hey, this is 
what's going on. We can do this.” And that was my first significant 
relationship.  
Raiskin:  And when did you meet then?  
Shirley:  Seventy-seven?  
Raiskin:  End of college?  
Shirley:  I was— did I have a year left?  
McCauley:  I think you had a year left.  
Shirley:  And you had two years left, I think.  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Long:  So let's clarify, you went to the same college.   
Shirley:  Yes.  
Long:  Okay.  
Shirley:  That's where we met.  
Long:  And what college was it?  
Shirley:  University of South Carolina.  
Long:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  And how did you meet?  
Shirley:  It was either on the track or in a bar.  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  I think it was at the track, I would run around that track.  
McCauley:  Yeah, I don't really remember how we met.  
Shirley:  She was really involved in sports, and I really wasn't but I liked 
being physical, and I'd go to this track, and I remember just like 
running for a mile around it, and Maureen said, “Well, you're  
pretty good at running. You could run farther.” I said, “I can?” So 
then I started running farther. I think that's—  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  Around there.   
McCauley:  Yeah, I didn't start really going to bars in South Carolina till I met 
Pat, and the bar  in South Carolina that we went to, well, first of all, 
it was a military base. Columbia has a big military base, and I 
don't— and also, there's a lot of blue laws and all that stuff, so all 
the clubs were considered private.  
 And so, it was a little bit scary to go to the clubs, because they 
would open this little door, and then you would have to show your 
ID to get in, so there was like this whole— you know, you're 
crossing some barrier, it wasn't just like anybody could walk in.  
 And we went to this one bar that was a lesbian bar, and one time 
we drove by it during the day, and I said to Pat, “I think the bar 
burned down.” And she said, “No, that's what it always looks 
like.” I'm like, “Seriously? That's where we're going at night?” It 
was frightening-looking, it was— 
Shirley:  I was just having that same thought— 
Raiskin:  What was it called?  
Shirley:  It was called The Fortress.  
McCauley:  The Fortress.  
Shirley:  And you walked in, you had the little screen and you walk in 
and— there  was a lot more role definition with many of the people 
that went to that bar. And I'm not just talking about the era, 
because the rest of my friends, you know, kind of like we are now,  
but that bar, there were some people really— and I was like, 
“Whoa!”  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that?  
Shirley:  I can't— 
Raiskin:  Butch/femme was the role— 
Shirley:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Shirley:  It was kind of a different world because it was The Fortress, and it 
was dark and you'd go in and there were a lot of women there just 
really, really tough-looking.  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  Not tough-acting, but just looking, but you don't know that at first 
because it's such a new world, and there were so many military.  
McCauley:  A lot of military women and I would say the— there was a lot of a 
level of  anxiety there, because if someone saw them leaving the bar, 
that would be their career. Was it going to be over if they were 
discovered. So, there was a lot of secrecy, and if you saw someone 
somewhere else, you could never act like you knew them because it 
might come up like, “Where do you know them from?” And it's 
like— yeah, so you wouldn't have that recognition of somebody 
outside of The Fortress.   
Shirley:  That's it, there was that tension, because another bar opened later 
downtown that was more what we'd be used to today. It was open 
and airy, and couches, and they'd bring musicians in, and it was 
very different, but that first one was walking into a different world.  
Raiskin:  Were those women older than you or it's just that they were in the 
military  that they were so— 
Shirley:  They seemed older, I don't know that they were. They acted— it 
was kind of restricted, constricted maybe. I just felt like, “Party!” 
And they had a more serious feel to it.  
Long:  Was there a class issue too?  
Shirley:  It makes sense that there would be, but I don't think so. Living in 
South Carolina and being a lesbian was kind of very much an 
equalizer among everything.  
Long:  In the sense of what?  
McCauley:  Everybody was discriminated against equally.  
Shirley:  And these are your peers and you need them— 
McCauley:  You need them, yeah.  
Shirley:  In the group of friends I had there, they probably weren't friends 
that I would have here. We were together because we were kind of 
on this lifeboat together.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Raiskin:  Can you remember any people in particular? What they were like, 
and description of them?  
Shirley:  Well, they were— it was quite a variety, really. From more— it was 
nowhere near as political as when we moved out here, and so 
people were just living their lives. Right, in separate— 
McCauley:  Two lives.  
Shirley:  Two lives, they were living their two lives. I don't know how to 
explain it really. It was kind of a diverse group. From someone who 
might be working at the gas station, to someone who's teaching 
college, maybe, and everything in between. But you were just 
together because you were lesbians.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Do you remember any stories of some 
women being outed and bad things happening to them?  
McCauley:  Well, right after we left South Carolina— well, it was interesting 
because I played sports at South Carolina, and so most of my 
friends were other people on the sports teams, and there was quite 
a few lesbians in softball and basketball, but they were never— we 
would never be allowed to outwardly identify as that.  
 And in fact, it was a big push to kind of not let anybody know that 
there was any lesbians on any team. After we left South Carolina, 
there was a basketball coach who actually was arrested and put in  
jail for having an affair with a basketball player that she had 
recruited, after the player had left.  
Shirley:  Yeah. After the player had left, so it wasn't while she was coaching.  
McCauley:  Yeah. But they were jailed, and they said they were jailed for 
perjury, was the reason. But it was an interesting time. But we had 
a situation that was frightening. We lived together, and we were 
stalked at some point, where it— it was kind of right before we 
moved out here. Do you remember that? When we  lived, and we 
would get phone calls?  
Shirley:  I'm wishing I remembered.  
McCauley:  And a guy would say that, “I'd been in your house.” You know, “I 
know you have golf clubs in the closet, in the back room,” and  
“Meet me out at this Lake Murray Island,” and— 
Shirley:  That's right.  
McCauley:  I mean, it was frightening, and, “I know about you two,” so it was 
definitely like he was stalking and threatening us.  
Raiskin:  Did he want to blackmail you?  
McCauley:  Yeah, I don't know what exactly he wanted, but it would be 
frequent calls.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel you could contact the police?  
McCauley:  I can't remember, I think we did—  
Shirley:  I think we did.  
McCauley:  —contact— we did contact the police.  
Long:  Was that in Eugene?  
Shirley:  No.  
McCauley:  No, it was in South Carolina.  
Shirley:  That was in South Carolina.  
McCauley:  And he actually even— my parents had both passed away, but I 
had a stepmother and some step-siblings and they were very 
young, and he actually called the house where they lived and got 
my youngest stepbrother to kind of give him some information 
about me. It was sort of this ongoing kind of frightening situation 
that happened there.  
 And shortly after, we decided to leave South Carolina. We may 
have already been in kind of— getting ready to go, but we were 
happy to be leaving.  
Raiskin:  Was your idea to leave South Carolina influenced by the 
atmosphere and discrimination, or some other reason?  
Shirley:  Where we left to, I think, because she was applying to grad school, 
so we were  going to leave, but we got far away from South 
Carolina as we could, so South Carolina, Oregon, what's farthest 
over there? That strongly influenced where we moved to, I believe. 
But I think—  
Raiskin:  Were you partners at the time?  
Shirley:  Yeah.  
McCauley: Yes.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Shirley:  So, I think you asked if there were many incidents of harassment 
that we'd heard about. I probably don't want this recorded 
historically, but the South— not being from the South felt different 
culturally, and it felt to me— it wasn't my culture and I felt very 
stifled in it. Everything just felt so restricted. And so, people really 
weren't out enough in some ways. I mean, you didn't really hear 
about stuff in the news or anything, you just knew you had to stay 
under the radar. But at the same time, it was— the women's 
movement was becoming very active, and there was a lot of— 
started to have a lot of stuff going on around that, and that 
emboldened us, and it was quite fun, really. They had all the early 
musicians come down there, and it was— 
Raiskin:  Who do you remember coming down there?  
Shirley:  Oh, gosh. Cris Williamson and Teresa Trull, and— Woody 
Simmons came down there. Did Meg Christian? All the early Olivia 
ones, before they were— at the beginning, and so they'd play in the 
church basement, or— By the time we had that nicer bar, they'd 
play in there, but it was—   
 South Carolina, I'll say I had a lot of fun, it was just not something 
I'd want to— I couldn't thrive under it, but it was an exciting time 
because of the women's movement, and being a lesbian subset of 
the women's movement. It was very exciting.  
Raiskin:  How did you choose Eugene and University of Oregon?  
McCauley:  Well, I had a teammate of mine from the University of South 
Carolina that moved out here, and so she would write letters to us 
about Eugene, and she lived in Eugene for a while and how great it 
was, and we should really come out here. And so, I was looking at 
grad schools and  I applied to three different schools and when I got 
accepted to the University of Oregon in Eugene, it was like, “Okay, 
let's go to Eugene.” And also, there was this song that we would 
listen to that Pat liked a lot that was called Oregon Mountains, and 
I can't remember who— 
Shirley:  Woody Simmons.  
McCauley:  Woody Simmons sings it, and so that also was like, “Oh, that 
sounds great.”  
Shirley:  Well, and she'd send us little maps of the town, and I'd say, “Look, 
Amazon Park. Amazon Parkway. This— we have got to go.” And 
now I say, “Oh, my vet's Amazon Clinic,” I don't think twice about 
it, but at the time that had to be utopia.  
Raiskin:  What did she tell you in the letters specifically about?   
McCauley:  Well, just that there was a lot of women out here, there was a lot of 
lesbians, it was okay to be a lesbian, basically just— it was utopia 
out here, and that we had to come out, and she was actually the 
person that when I was in college, when I— she sort of identified 
me as lesbian before I self-identified as a lesbian and she had a 
partner. I knew she was a lesbian, she had a woman partner, and 
they said, “Come on over to our house tonight,” and so I went over 
there, and then they said, “We're going to a party,” and so we went 
into her van and we started driving, and then she turned around 
and said, “This party is women-only.” And I was just like, “What?” 
And she's like, “It's women-only. Like, these are women who like 
women.” She kind of sort of like kidnapped me to this party, and 
then after that it was,  “Okay, I need to identify myself also as a 
lesbian.” So— 
Shirley:  Bless her heart.  
Raiskin:  So what year was it you came to Eugene?  
Shirley:  Seventy-eight.   
Raiskin:  And what did Eugene look like to you, what was your first 
impressions of it?  
McCauley:  Well, Eastern Oregon, we drove across and I think I cried all  the 
way to Sahalie Falls. I was like, “What are we— where  are we 
going?”   
Shirley:  Because Mott  talked about rivers and bike paths and so, “Welcome 
to Oregon,” and it's like— “Whoa, this is different than she 
portrayed.” But then we got to the Willamette Valley and—  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  Got hopeful. It was everything she said it was. Soon, it seems to me 
like very early— well.  
McCauley:  Well, we first say that the house where she stayed, there was— a 
lesbian in town owned the house and she had a partner, and then 
Mott  rented a room, and then we rented a room for a little while. 
There wasn't really enough room, but they let us stay there.  
Shirley:  Mott  moved, she went back to South Carolina.  
McCauley:  And then Mott  went back to South Carolina, where  she lives today, 
but— so then we stayed there for a while and then we rented 
another room until we finally got our own place.  
Long:  Where was that house?  
McCauley:  In Springfield.  
Long:  Oh.  
McCauley:  Yeah, it was like in the historic area in Springfield.  
Long:  When you came to Eugene, did anybody talk about Referendum 
51? Because that was going down just about that time.  
Shirley:  It was right after that.   
Long:  It was right after that, okay.  
Shirley:  Yeah.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Shirley:  That was the city one, right?  
Long:  Yes.  
Shirley:  Yeah.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Shirley:  It was after that.  
Raiskin:  Do you mean you came after the referendum or the referendum 
came after you came?  
Shirley:  We came after the referendum.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Shirley:  But soon after we got here, I don't know how we got into the 
community but I just remember being at a party really soon after 
we got here and just feeling like we just got off the prairie or 
something. Do you remember who was in that big green— the 
avocado house? Anyway, but there were so many women there, 
and it was so lively, and it was such a positive environment.   
 Things were so much more positive here, and creative here. I felt 
pretty at home. I had lived several places before, but I came to 
Eugene and felt at home really quickly.  
McCauley:  Yeah, I had the same experience, too. After we had lived here for a 
short period of time, it was like, “Oh yeah, this is way more 
comfortable for me.”  
Shirley:  Yeah, “I found home,” that's what it felt  like.  
Raiskin:  What kind of things did you get involved with when you came?  
Shirley:  Well, I got involved with— we partied a lot. That was a big time-
consuming activity, then went to U of O, and it was mainly 
centered  around friends, and then other measures came, and— 
which really galvanized us politically, and it's been kind of political 
ever since. But in— that was quite a bit later, '89, I started with 
Soromundi.  
Long:  Pat, were you a graduate student at UO as well?  
Shirley:  Yeah.  
Long:  What were you— 
Shirley:  I didn't come out here for that, but I ended up there.  
Long:  Okay. What were you each studying?  
Shirley:  I was studying this kind of unique program, it was called Applied 
Human Development, it was in the Psychology Department. And I  
got into that because it offered a year of practical experience, and I 
did an internship at Womenspace, and I just wanted that human 
service experience.  
Long:  Okay. And how about you, Maureen?  
McCauley:  I was in a program, which was exercise physiology, with— then 
you could pick some specialties, and I picked gerontology and 
adaptive physical education. I was a P.E. major in South Carolina, 
and then after I graduated I worked with VISTA Volunteers for 
senior and disabled services, and it was like the 1980s, so it was 
pretty depressed economy, and so I would have jobs every couple  
years that were grant-funded. I was the community organizer for 
Whiteaker neighborhood, for NEDCO, and I worked for 
Willamalane. I coached wheelchair basketball and I drove trips for 
seniors, and then eventually I started working at Starflower, just 
the last few years that Starflower was in business, I worked there.  
Raiskin:  And what was that experience like?  
McCauley:  Well, it was great. I mean, I started in the herb room and then I did 
warehouse, and then I became the main receiver in the warehouse, 
and it was an amazing place to work, very close comradery with 
the whole warehouse team, it was— unfortunately kind of when 
the— Starflower started, a bit of the decline was starting to happen, 
and I actually ended up on the board of directors that made the 
decision for Starflower to have to close the doors, which was very 
painful.   
 When I think back on it, I think it was like way ahead of its time. 
Distributing natural foods, and we would distribute to like little 
tiny stores all over Oregon and Northern California, and now, 
natural food distribution is so huge, so it's just kind of a— it was a 
fantastic opportunity.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think Starflower had to close?  
McCauley:  There were two main things that happened. I think there was one 
thing that people were very interested in taking care of each other. 
And so, they didn't quite, I think, realize the business part of that in 
terms of workers compensation and how that worked, because 
what happened was if people got injured, they pulled a muscle in 
their back or something, they would just say, “Oh, take a couple 
weeks off.”  
 Well, as the result to that, we ended up in a Class A risk and had to 
pay our premiums upfront, in cash, and so we didn't  realize the 
whole thing, like you have to get back to work in three days, or it 
starts affecting your insurance.  
 And then, the other bigger thing was that there was a big 
distributor that went out of business, and basically didn't pay their 
bills to the  food providers. When that happened, then everybody 
who provided any food wanted cash upfront for their food, and 
that was never how we operated in the past, so— 
 It's very difficult, when you're a big— it was a big business, to 
make that shift, so coming up with cash to actually buy the  
merchandise became not possible, so we couldn't fill the orders, so 
then people started going elsewhere, so it was just kind of a 
combination of things that happened.  
 I was coaching wheelchair basketball, and one of my players said 
that I should become an occupational therapist, and I didn't know 
what that was, but I just kind of saw the writing on the wall with 
Starflower, and I needed something that actually— I could make a 
living, and so I ended up going back to school at that point, after 
working with Pat for a year at—  
Shirley:  Yes, I was on the interview committee. That was so awkward. I 
said, “I don't think I should be here.” “Oh, no, you should be here.”  
Raiskin:  What's the story?  
McCauley:  Okay, after Starflower,  I started to apply for schools and I realized I 
needed to get back to some experience that had something to do 
with occupational therapy, so Pat worked at a mental health clinic, 
and they needed somebody that had warehouse experience to run 
the store that  they ran to train people with mental health disorders 
to work in a kind of public environment,  like semi-public 
environment. And so, Pat says, “I know somebody with warehouse 
experience,” and so I applied at Laurel Hill Rehab Center, and 
yeah, Pat was on my interview committee.  
Shirley:  I was. She got the job.  
McCauley:  I got the job.   
Shirley:  You would have anyway. And then I left there a year later or 
something.  
Raiskin:  And what kind of work were you doing?  
Shirley:  Well, I— after U of O I also was a VISTA volunteer, and we set up 
safe houses, we organized safe houses throughout the 
community— 
Raiskin:  For whom?  
Shirley:  For rape prevention, so if you were out and about and you needed 
a safe spot.  
Raiskin:  How did that work? Did people volunteer their homes?  
Shirley:  Yeah, they have signs in the windows. A sign was— it was a sign 
with a candle, I think. We'd interview them, and do trainings and 
they could have their sign, and it wasn't really used much, but it 
did add a sense of safety when you were out to know  where you 
could zip to, if you needed. It was wasn't that long-lasting though.  
Long:  Were the safe houses, that program, under the auspices  of a 
particular larger program or agency?  
Shirley:  No, they weren't. We just set them up as VISTA volunteers.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].   
Shirley:  Yeah, it wasn't under another agency. And then, I worked at a 
lesbian-owned restaurant, lesbian employees. That was very fun, 
the Wild Iris, it was— 
Raiskin:  And what was that like?  
Shirley:  It was in this old house, it was pretty nice, cool little place.  
McCauley:  On Lincoln Street.  
Shirley:  Yeah. It was very busy, and there were a few of us that worked 
there, I worked in the kitchen.  
Raiskin:  What kind of food did you serve there?  
Shirley:  I worked in the daytime, I can't remember if they did dinners. They 
must have. I just remember they had a great— I don't eat meat 
now, but they had a great chicken salad sandwich that was to die 
for. I don't know, salads, sandwiches. I don't know what they did at 
night, I can't recall, but it was fun.  
Raiskin:  So it was a lesbian cooperative, or it was— 
Shirley:  No, it was owned by a lesbian, two. Two women.  
Long:  Who owned it?  
Shirley:  Mary Anne Gould and— her name's right there, Char something.  
McCauley:  Charlene? I can kind of picture her.  
Shirley:  I can picture her.   
Raiskin:  How long did you work there?  
Shirley:  I don't really know, maybe a year, and then I must have got the job 
at Laurel. No, I worked there and then became a VISTA volunteer, 
and then I went to Laurel Hill, which was a wonderful place to start 
a career in mental health because they were a training site for 
Boston University, and it was such a great start. And then I went 
from there to a community mental health clinic, and I've been there 
ever since.  
Raiskin:  Why would Boston University have a training site in Eugene?  
Shirley:  They had different programs around the country, not many of 
them, but they— and they taught their brand of psych rehab. It was 
really— it was just such great training and being up on all the 
current stuff, and current approaches, and it was effective.  
Raiskin:  And when did you work at Womenspace?  
Shirley:  That was an internship.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Shirley:  In '80, so it hadn't been operating all that long, I don't think. Seems 
like shelters were— certainly not as commonplace as they are now.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
McCauley:  Yeah, when Pat brought up the thing about the safe houses, I 
remember an incident in Eugene. It was just an interesting thing 
where a woman was raped on the bike path, and the Eugene Police  
came out with a statement that all women should stay off the bike 
path, and we put together a group and went out. We were in a 
running group anyway— 
Shirley:  Oh, my god, yeah.  
McCauley:  —and we put out where we were running on the bike path all the 
time, and that men should stay off the bike path, because men, you 
know, it was just— 
Shirley:  They were offending.  
McCauley:  Yeah, they were offending.  
Shirley:  Why not keep the dangerous people off? But remember the 
program was the Doberman Pinscher— 
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  Safe Run, I think it was— something like— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe that?  
Shirley:  This woman had— she must've been a dog trainer, and she had 
Doberman Pinschers, and she would let women borrow the dogs to 
go running as a protective thing, and I had one at my house for a 
while. Someone would come into my house and take the dog. And 
I'll tell you, no one bothered you, no one.  
McCauley:  No, they were— 
Shirley:  They gave you a wide berth.   
Raiskin:  What did those dogs look like?  
Shirley:  What did— 
Raiskin:  Those dogs look like?  
McCauley:  Doberman Pinschers.  
Shirley:  Doberman Pinschers.  
Long:  They're large?  
McCauley:  They're large.  
Shirley:  Very large, with pointy ears and—  
McCauley:  No, they're attack dogs.  
Shirley:  Yeah, you'll see them on signs when, “Beware of dog,” and then 
they'll have a— [grimaces]. They were all very well-behaved and 
very sweet, but they were imposing-looking. Yeah, that was fun.  
Long:  How long did that last?  
Shirley:  I don't know how long she went, going for. A few years maybe?  
Raiskin:  I know women used to check them out to go camping alone.  
Shirley:  Oh, that's a great idea.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Shirley:  I had two big sheep dogs for a while, and I lived near  the bike path, 
and I'd go out there whenever I wanted with my two big dogs. In  
recent years, I have a little dog, and my first time walking out with 
him I went, “Oh man, this is not the same. You're not scared little 
fella, are you?”  
Raiskin:  How long were you in a relationship with each other?  
Shirley:  We've got to know the answer to this one.  
McCauley:  Yeah, because it was a long time ago. We moved here in '78, 
probably after we moved here, I mean we— 
Shirley:  A few years, I think.  
McCauley:  Yeah, probably two years in South Carolina, or a year and a half in 
South Carolina, and two years here, or— 
Raiskin:  And what split you up?  
Shirley:  Oh.  
McCauley:  There was a lot of opportunities in Eugene. I think that's what split 
us up.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what the— 
McCauley:  I mean, we were very young.  
Shirley:  Yeah, young and immature, and there was a lot of— partner 
rearranging going on a lot.  
Raiskin:  What were the politics around sexuality then, in the lesbian 
community?   
Shirley:  Well, I remember myself being quite strident, but you are more 
strident  when you first come out anyway, but— and really, 
working at Womenspace, I had— I would recognize sometimes, 
“Wow, why am I so angry?” And it really— I was angry, and— 
Raiskin:  About women being abused?  
Shirley:  Yeah, I think it would come out in lots of ways, but it would— I 
mean, I didn't walk around like an angry person, but I would— I 
remember when— If someone was disrespectful— like, people 
would come into the bar, and not for good reasons, you know? And 
they'd take over the dance floor, and throwing their weight around 
a little bit and I would just be— now, I'd probably handle it 
different, but I'd just be angry and I'd really— 
 Some of that was from seeing all I'd seen in Womenspace, but we 
were also really into, “We need to make room for ourselves in this 
society,” and so— and I remember, when men would come into the 
bar and they'd get on the dance floor, we were all having a good 
time, and they'd whip their shirts off.  
 And we were like, “We should be able to do that,” and so we'd  
“bshweee” [pretends  pulling shirt off]— And the poor bouncer, 
she'd go, “Please, don't make me deal with this.” It was a frequent 
occurrence because we were always just so— so we were just ready 
to challenge whatever we needed to challenge.  
Raiskin:  And what were the feelings about monogamy or polyamory or 
sexuality in general?   
Shirley:  It was a time of— it seemed like a time where people were really 
open to trying different configurations. We were also young, and so 
it may still be like that for the twenty-something generation, but 
then it was like that, and so in general, I'd say overall people were 
into serial monogamy, but there was a lot of cross-pollination, so to 
speak.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. And so after you separated your romantic 
relationship, did you stay friends at that time?  
McCauley:  I mean, it wasn't easy at first. I don't think it's ever easy at first, but 
Pat was the person that was my family, so—  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Long:  How were  your families handling your sexuality?  
McCauley:  At this point?  
Long:  Well, let's just go back. When did you come out to your families?  
McCauley:  I was living here probably a year, and I had one brother that lives 
in South Carolina, and one that lived in Boston. The one that lives 
in South Carolina wasn't there when I left, but he had moved there 
in the meantime, and he called me and basically said that one of my 
best friends from high school was— told him that I was a lesbian, 
and I should call her and make sure she doesn't start talking like 
that to people.   
 And then, I had to say, “Well, actually that's the truth, and that's 
what I told her.” And it was not good for a long time with that 
particular brother. It wasn't clear— I mean, I think there was two  
things going on. First, just like sort of community embarrassment 
for him in a way, because it just wasn't spoken about in South 
Carolina.  
 And then, he also he said he was mad because why didn't I tell him 
myself? But at that point, he didn't talk to me  for quite a few— 
maybe  quite a few years, actually, like two years. I have another 
brother that lives in Boston, and he's a social worker. After I talked 
to my one brother, I called my other brother and he's like, “Oh, I'm 
so glad you told me.”  
 It was like completely opposite, like, “Now, you can share 
everything, you don't have to worry about,” he's older, he's like 
eight years older. And he was fine from the beginning with it. But 
both of my brothers have— as society has changed, and their lives  
have changed, he ended up marrying one of my friends from 
college, and as soon as they started dating, she called me and said, 
“Somebody wants to talk to you.” And put him on the phone.  
 And from that point on, it was— he wasn't going to— he was sorry 
as well, that we hadn't had contact, so that was a hard time, but 
now our relationship is great, with both my brothers, and they— 
when the Supreme Court passed the right to marry, both of my 
brothers called me that day and said, “When are you having your 
official wedding? We want to come.”   
 And so then, my partner and I were like, “Oh my gosh, we have to 
have a wedding because my brother,” and her brother also wanted 
to come. It was like, “We have to have a wedding. Our brothers 
want to come.”  
Raiskin: That's sweet.  
McCauley:  It's been quite a turnaround.  
Raiskin:  What were your subsequent relationships after you separated?  
Shirley:  What were they?  
Raiskin:  Who were you with? What was your life like?  
Shirley:  Well, I've had a few relationships and I choose really well, and 
they've all been with really wonderful people and I remain close to 
them now, so— I mean, relationships can be difficult to sustain, but 
the people I've been with have just been wonderful, and really it's 
kind of our core family group.  We all add on— 
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  We bring someone else into the fold, but we've stayed together all 
the time.  
McCauley:  Yeah, after we ended our relationship, Pat got together with a 
woman who then we became really good friends, and then she was 
living in a house and I think working at the restaurant. Was that 
when you were working with Adelka? At the restaurant, that you 
were living in the house—  
 Anyway, I got together with somebody that— 
Shirley:  Oh.  
McCauley:  —she was living in the house with  this person that I got together 
with, so there was no like not seeing each other.  
Shirley:  Yes, that's right. I was actually in the backyard.  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  So do you think— I know it's not across the board, but do you think 
that there's a way that lesbians separate and get together and keep 
their friends in a way that's different than the heterosexual model?  
Shirley:  Oh, absolutely.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe it? Can you describe what that is like?  
Shirley:  Well, I think it's relative to our lesbian culture, I think it is a part of 
the lesbian culture, and I'm not sure why but it makes— it sure 
makes sense to me. I mean, I've heard different speculations, “Oh, 
well, maybe because we're— it’s a prescribed community, and 
you're going to cross paths.” But maybe it's just more sensibility 
and valuing relationships, but it's never made sense to me in the 
heterosexual world how you can love someone and commit to 
them, and then just end up, “I never want to see their  damn face 
again.”   
 It's very— it’s just very common. I hope it stays that way,  as we 
kind of integrate more into the mainstream, I hope we don't lose 
that. That's a good thing, I think.  
McCauley:  Yeah, for me it's been a total blessing because people I've been 
involved with, the  people that Pat has been involved with have 
really just become like family to me, and even though things have 
changed amongst us, like the closeness and the history that we 
share, and just growing up together is a big part.  
 Now I have some friends that have kids, and they're sort of part of 
the whole mix too, and it just kind of grows— It's always like 
there's enough love to go around, so why eliminate someone that 
maybe you've had a changed relationship with but they're still a big 
part of your life and  your history, and family.   
Shirley:  Family. Yeah. Maybe there's more of a family role— 
McCauley:  Well, the whole campaign, we did— Oregon did the whole 
campaigning, I mean, we took part in— we had pictures taken like 
“we are family” and having our whole group— 
Raiskin:  Which campaign is this?  
McCauley:  I can't remember if it was Measure 9 or one of the later measures— 
Long:  You were here for Measure 8 too, that came first.  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  I think it was the second one.   
Long:  So Measure 8 was 1987-88, and then Measure 9— that was the one 
that was lost, and then Measure 9 was 1992.  
Shirley:  I think it was Measure 9 because that one seemed— more people 
got involved, you know, people outside the gay and lesbian 
community, which was— 
Long:  Right.  
Raiskin:  What was this poster that you made?  
McCauley:  Well, just we took pictures— I remember we were at a picnic at 
Adelka  and Alicia's and we all got together and took this big 
picture, and kept— we'd always put, “We are family,” as the title at 
the bottom, and I just felt like that was the truth for us. And then, 
they kind of—  
 I don't know if it was before Basic Rights, you know, when Basic 
Rights came in also they kind of continued to just promote that, like 
that you have pictures with your siblings, you have pictures with 
your neighbors, you kind of put it out there all the time, that we're 
part of the community, we're your next-door neighbors, we're your 
coworkers, and when Measure 8 was happening I was in school in 
Tacoma.  
 And then there was Measure 9, that was right after that, but then 
when I returned to Eugene and started working just sort of 
standard jobs, not in more protected Starflower-type positions, I  
mean, from the moment I started I just felt like— you know, people 
are going to know who I  am. I'm not going to hide it or— 
Long:  So you were always out in your jobs.  
McCauley:  Once I became an occupational therapist and I was hired, I mean, I 
didn't necessarily talk about it but if somebody asked that was a 
coworker, I would just say, “Oh, yeah, well me and my partner 
Laura we're doing this,” or—  
Long:  And what kind of reactions did you get?  
McCauley:  Luckily, I've been in a supportive work environment.  
Raiskin:  So you've nurtured this familial network for forty  years almost. 
What's it like now? So you were in your twenties, and now you're 
however old you are. What's that network feel like to you now?  
Shirley:  Well, people have built their own lives, and some intersect. 
Maureen's very, very close with  Adelka and Alicia, more part of 
their family, because we don't have like, every Saturday night, 
“Let's go to the park,” kind of contact. “It's Wednesday. What do 
you want to do today?” Because people have gone on to build their 
own relationships and careers, and that kind of thing, but we still 
see— different people see ones of us more often than others, but 
when we get together, it feels just like you're picking up right 
where you left off. We just know each other so well, and we knew 
each other when we were twenty  and doing all our stupid stuff. 
That's funny. It's really nice to know someone that long.   
Raiskin:  Have either of you gotten married?  
McCauley:  Yeah, I got married.  
Raiskin:  And what was that like for you?  
McCauley:  It was great. I mean, I'd been with my partner or wife, now I can 
say, for  twenty-four  years, almost twenty-five years, and we did 
everything. When Multnomah had their one day where you could 
go up and get a license, we went up and got a license, and then had 
a wedding like the next day, you had to wait twenty-four  hours or 
something, so we had a wedding the next day with two other 
couples, and when the City of Eugene said you could register, we 
registered.  
 And people at that point said we were crazy because that was right 
in the middle of the OCA being very active, and they said, “Well, 
that's just a list for them to target you,” but we were like, “Well, we 
want to register.” And then we got domesticated, when that was 
available.  
Shirley:  “Domesticated.” [laughs]  
McCauley:  We wanted to have that commitment, and so when the Supreme 
Court came out with that ruling, I mean, it was pretty much 
instantaneous, with my brothers calling and everything, but we 
also were just like, “Okay, this is it. This is the real thing. We 
actually will get recognition and benefits.”   
 And I mean, I can't even believe the change in my lifetime. I never, 
I never thought that we would ever have the rights to get married. I 
mean, I remember the OCA and  the “special rights,” and that 
whole campaign that was just— people believed that. And now— 
Raiskin:  They'd think that gay and lesbians were asking for special rights 
over heterosexuals.  
McCauley:  Yes. The people— that we were asking for special rights when we 
just wanted to be recognized with— 
Long: Basic rights.  
McCauley: Basic rights. Yeah. The change in society, in recognizing gay and 
lesbian relationships is incredible. I work with some younger 
people that they don't have any recollection of what it was like.  
Shirley:  I remember first hearing— The first time I heard “gay marriage” 
even mentioned on the national stage, was Bill Clinton, when we he 
was running for president, and someone asked him, “Are you in 
favor of gay marriage?” And it was like, “Why is someone even 
asking?” I mean, it just wasn't even a possibility, and he said he 
wasn't, which I was just so amazed the term was even said.  
 And I thought, “Wow, maybe this could be a possibility someday 
because it's actually— someone  just put a name to it and we're 
talking about it.” And I actually think the OCA, as hateful as they 
were, and there was so much— it was really tense, and there was 
increase in violence and intimidation, but I don't think we'd be  
where we are today without them, because we organized, and we 
organized and we broadened.  
 Allies stood up, people who really probably hadn't even thought 
that much about it took a stand in our favor, and there was this one 
moment, and that sticks out for me, and I'm not sure why, but it 
was right during one of the campaigns, and it was like just turning 
evening, and it was rainy and cold, and there was one woman, and 
in my mind she was an ally, and she wasn't a lesbian.  
 I don't know why, I couldn't even see her up close, but that's in my 
head, that's who she was. And she was standing by herself in the 
rain, in  the cold on Ferry Street Bridge holding this sign up— 
Raiskin:  That said?  
Shirley:  —against— well, it was in our favor, whether it was— I can't 
remember how the ballot measures were worded.  
Long:  No on 9. It would be “No on 9.” Yeah.  
Shirley:  Yeah, so it  would be No on 9, and just this lone figure, and it just 
was like— something  really inspiring about that. But people came 
out of the woodwork, and I really don't think we'd have gay 
marriage if they hadn't expressed such fear of it all the time and 
kept it in the public eye. It was like, “Well, why don't we have gay 
marriage?” So, thank you, Mr. Mabon.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any concerns about the assimilation of gay people?   
Shirley:  You know, there's a loss to that, I think. I'm very— I think every 
generation likes  living when they live. As you get older you hear 
our own self say, “Well, I'm glad I'm not a kid today.” You know? 
Every generation says that, but I am glad that I was living when 
this movement really took off, the women's movement and the gay 
and lesbian movement, and we were more of a subculture and an 
identity, and you felt an affinity for people you didn't even know 
just by passing them on the street, and— 
 And you can move to a town, and you'd have some people to look 
up. I’d always  say, “I don't know how straight people do it. You 
move to a city, how do you know where to start? How do they 
meet people?” I mean, you have to have something to organize 
around. I feel really fortunate for being alive during all these 
changes.  
 There's a loss, I think, of— when  we were just subsumed into the 
main culture. It seems inevitable, but I'm glad I was here for the 
part I was in.  
Raiskin:  How do you imagine aging as lesbians?  
Shirley:  Hopefully with friends. A lot of work needs to be done on  that. I 
work with older adults with mental health, and I work not in 
Eugene, but in a more conservative area, and I imagine myself in 
these assisted living  or nursing facilities, and— sexuality itself 
tends to— except for a few lively ones where then it gets to be a  
problem. I mean, it's not seen as a positive. It kind of— it’s not a 
real— 
 You don't walk into these places and get a sense of people's vibrant 
sexuality, nor do you get too much of a sense until you're really 
there, knowing people, of individuality. And there's really only 
been a couple out people that I've been able to meet. And I imagine 
in Eugene it's not going to be— 
 It's going to be our generation, so we grew up with these issues, 
and as long as you're in Eugene or somewhere similar, it will 
probably be okay, but if you move— we’re  still on a bubble here, I 
think. It'd be stigmatizing today to be in the places I work in, and I 
think people would say, “Well, that's that lesbian, or that's that gay 
man,” or— Attitudes have come far— 
Long: Do you think lesbians will have to go back in the closet to be old 
people in a retirement center?  
Shirley:  I'm thinking we won't have to, because we're growing up that way, 
and these are our peers that we've been advocating and challenging 
all the way along, but the generation before us, I believe people 
have gone back in the closet, at least in all the towns in between 
Portland and Eugene, and you know, the centers.  
Raiskin:  Because even though we may identify as lesbians, the caretakers— 
Shirley:  That's right.  
Raiskin:  —the people who have power over us, won't be necessarily.   
Shirley:  That's right, but hopefully— yeah. I'll tell you though, I work in 
rural communities, social work, and I'm just myself and I've always 
been treated well. I've been treated well by my coworkers, and 
there's a range from people similar in politics to conservative, and 
I've always just been treated really respectfully.  
 But, what I see more of with the clients I work, and I go into their 
homes, is more and more people are saying, “Oh, well, my 
caregiver is my niece's wife.” You know, you hear it and it rolls off 
the tongue a lot easier and more people will mention their family 
members or their connections.  
 They still have to say, “Oh, that's my— that’s  my cousin, he's gay.” 
You know what I mean? It still comes with that, but they're saying 
it and they're not judging. And they'll say, “Well, I'm not judging.” 
And now I'll hear that more with the trans-related. So I do really 
notice a difference. 
 And some of that I think are changes that first take place in the 
home, with the person thinking about themselves, and then 
loosening up and— I don't know what it would be like walking 
around the community necessarily, but it does feel more open.  
Raiskin:  What would you like for your retirement living situation?  
Shirley:  Ideally, I would like— My pie in the sky dream would be to have a 
little community of my friends with little places, little cottages, and 
we could hire caregivers to come in and help us, and we'd all be— I  
picture it as horseshoe for some reason, because I saw a place setup 
like that, just regular apartments, I thought, “That would work.”  
 So that we're all— still have some spot of our own, but we're all 
together, that's what I would like. I don't think it will happen like 
that, but that's my dream.  
Long: How would you make that happen?  
Shirley:  Well, you'd have to get people to sign in blood now that they're not 
going to move, they're going to stick with the plan. And that's hard, 
because people do decide to move, and people are deciding to 
snowbird, and I just want to, “Don't. Don't!”  
Raiskin:  Maureen, I know you've given this a lot of thought.  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about your decisions.  
McCauley:  Yeah, I mean that's the vision that I had from a long time ago, 
cluster housing has kind of been something that I read books about 
when I first started moving to Eugene, and we actually had some 
houses, properties that— with the adjoining  lots, and we're trying 
to work with the city and see if we could get something like that 
going, but it just— It wasn't going to happen there.  
 And so, my partner and I, we’re involved in a co-housing group in 
Eugene for about five and half, six years, trying to get that started, 
because we’ve always kind of felt like aging with people around  
and kind of mixed ages and— would be a good thing. About two 
years ago, we actually— 
 Well, we left the co-housing group and bought into a townhouse 
intentional community development in Eugene, and so we're 
around, we have— There's ten other households and eventually 
there'll be thirteen  households, and there's not any other gay or 
lesbian households in our particular development.  
 There's a similar development right close by that does have a gay 
couple that's in there, and when we were in the co-housing there 
was two or three gay families that were in that. We're kind of on— I 
mean, we feel like we've found the place that's going to work for 
us, hopefully, that has community around it.  
 And we would've loved our friends to buy into the same places, 
but we were ready to make the move, and so we just went ahead 
and kind of did that— 
Raiskin:  What happened with the co-housing situation?  
McCauley:  Well, some people stayed in, and what happened was that it was 
under appeal by the neighbors, and that appeal actually was just— 
There was just a victory for the co-housing group, and so it does 
look like it's going to be kind of a go-ahead at some point, it just 
might take another couple years, but the interest in that is 
phenomenal.   
 I mean, we're still friends with the people that we were in the 
group with, and the person that's taking calls and emails now, so 
there's like twenty inquiries a day about the units, now that it's out 
of the appeal process. And so I think it's going to happen in 
Eugene, it'll be the first co-housing community in Eugene, and I'd 
be very excited to see it happen, because I think— I think banding 
together is what people need to do really, to have some alternative 
types of housing, rather than just like single family, single family, 
single family. 
Raiskin:  Yeah, it's a desire for a lot of people. We just have to get it going 
faster.  
Shirley:  And everyone's just not in the same place at the same time, so they 
were ready to make the move, other friends have retired, and I'm 
still working. People, we just don't all meet those same milestones 
at the same time.  
Raiskin:  How do you keep the connectivity now that people are living 
separately?  
Shirley:  Events, a lot. Gatherings on holidays, women's basketball games.  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Shirley:  We have a lot of contact during basketball season.  
McCauley:  Yeah, kind of traditions. Set up traditions with people, that's kind 
of what I like to do, just that, “It's this time of year, we always get  
together, we do this,” so I'm kind of a tradition person, so I like 
that.  
Shirley:  Maureen is really good at staying connected.  
McCauley:  I'm a project person, so I like to help people with projects, so I make 
sure that people know they can call me if they have a project or 
something they— And then that helps me stay  connected to them. 
Shirley:  And if we're going through something difficult— we know to 
check in with each other.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
McCauley:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  After having lived  here for forty  years, and been in the lesbian 
community for longer, is there some wisdom that you would pass 
down to a younger person who's maybe watching this video soon 
or in the future?  
McCauley:  I would say cherish your friendships. Don't get too complacent 
about what we have, you can see how tides shift in the political 
realm, and I don't think we can take things necessarily for granted. 
There's still people that probably are not happy with the way 
things are, and anytime you have a— you're different,  that can be a 
target. 
Shirley:  I would say have patience with others who aren't on board yet, and 
that's really hard when you're young. So, people will come out and  
then after struggling with it for a long time and then expect their 
family to be, “Well that's great news, Johnny.” They need some 
time, too.  
 So, just have patience with— Let people get to know you, that's 
really— I think that's really what makes progress, is when people 
start coming out and let people just know them, and that's what I'd 
say.  
McCauley:  Yeah, I think that's where Basic Rights Oregon was brilliant, really, 
in their campaign. You know, knock on your neighbors' doors, or 
come out at work, or— sort of making every day national Coming 
Out Day, I think it was a great strategy. It helped me, because I was 
pretty closeted for many years, and I feel like that really helped me 
and when I started a new profession, just having that kind of basic, 
like, “Okay, this is who I am. Start from day one, and this is it.” 
You know?  
Shirley:  If you're comfortable with yourself, other people, mostly, will share 
that comfort. The other thing I'd say is, “Don't assume it's easy for 
everybody.” For some people who are more on the cutting edge 
and the leading edge of things and of the movement, I think they 
kind of assume that progress has been made across the board, and I 
don't think it necessarily has.  
 And some people, I think, sit more quietly with a lot of pain around 
things. So, not everyone's in the same place, and feeling okay about 
things, but you just need open arms.   
Raiskin:  Is there anything we haven't touched on that you want to make 
sure is recorded?  
Shirley:  Well, I think an important part of my experience here has been— I 
know if you've talked to other people about Soromundi. So that 
started in '89 and I was one of the— I was at the original six or eight 
people in the living room that started it, and I've been with it ever 
since.  
Raiskin:  Is this Soromundi, the lesbian chorus?  
Shirley:  Yeah, and it's been amazing to watch the community that's been 
built within that. I've never seen such instantaneous rising to the 
occasion for other people. I remember a couple of years ago we had 
a member who was dying, and she lived out in the country, and 
our director said, “I was thinking afterwards we should go to Joy’s 
and sing for her.”  
 I mean, we're talking like eighty  people, and she lives in this small 
country home and she's really close to death, and we said, “Yes, we 
should do that.” And so, after rehearsal, it was dark and— I don't  
know, after 9:00, and so we take off to go— we try and figure out 
where she lives and we take off and go there, and by the time we 
even get there, there's other Soromundi members out there, already 
directing traffic at the parking area field— 
 It was just  really a can-do kind of group. It was so impressive, and 
we just filled her house and sang, and it was just— and she was just 
like beaming, it was so important to her. But just that someone will  
put out a— post something, “I have to move next weekend,” and 
people show up, and it's really turned into this alive community. 
That's been an important thing.  
Raiskin:  Thank you both so much.  
Long:  Yes, thank you.  
Shirley:  I hope I was in the right spot, I— 
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  