  
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Janet Anderson on September 11, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives  and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's Gender 
and Sexuality Studies. Janet, please let us know if you agree to be 
recorded for this project, and that you give your permission  for the 
university to preserve and make available your recorded and 
transcribed interview. 
Anderson:  Yes, I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much. Let's just start with the basic question then. 
Can you please tell us when and where you were born, where you 
grew up, and something about your early background?  
Anderson:  Okay, I was born in Sauk Center, Minnesota in the middle of the 
Scandinavian belt. My mom was half Swedish and half German, 
and my dad was of Norwegian immigrants. Grew up in Minnesota 
and South Dakota. The favorite childhood memory is going to the 
lake, because my grandparents had a cabin on Eagle Lake. It was 
this wonderful two story cabin, and the second story had a sleeping 
porch. And that's where it had five beds in it and a crib, and that's 
where everybody slept. My grandparents, my parents, me, my 
aunts and uncles, my cousins. And then there was a little cottage 
right down by the lake, and there were more beds in that. But it 
was a wonderful childhood in terms of growing up there. I was an 
only child, but one of the biggest influences in my childhood was 
my grandmother. It was a very Republican household. My 
grandmother was very active in Republican politics, and she 
became the national president of the  American Legion Auxiliary. 
That was part of  her whole life. And then she was— I think she was 
on the Republican National Committee.  
 She was very active in politics. My grandfather was a pharmacist, 
so he stayed home and by that point, there was just one child at 
home. But she was a very strong influence in my life. She was a 
very strong woman. She was born in 1886. And so here she was, 
this woman who became the national president of the American  
Legion Auxiliary. I have a picture in my home of her giving a 
poppy— on Veterans Day they give poppies— to President 
Roosevelt. He was a Democrat, but she didn't care. She had given a 
poppy to the President of the United States. It was a time when it 
didn't matter whether he was a Republican or Democrat, it 
mattered that he was the President of the United States. And I wish 
we could get back there. I don't myself don't think I would be that 
impressed by giving a poppy to President Trump. But then, 
nevertheless. It was a time where being a moderate was prized.  
 Anyway,  I guess when I was in fifth grade, my parents moved to 
Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and I finished my growing up in Sioux 
Falls. When I was in high school and junior high, my best friends 
were all girls. And when other people were dating, we'd have girls’  
parties and there would be four of us that would get together and 
play cards, or play games, or whatever on a Friday and Saturday 
night. I did date every— oh, I know. Following in my 
grandmother's footsteps, I started taking leadership roles in high 
school.  I was in Job's Daughters. Do you know anything about Job's 
Daughters? It's a Masonic organization for girls. Like the Eastern 
Star, or the Masons' DeMolay. I think the high school  organization 
for boys. You wear white robes with purple capes, and I became  the 
Honored Queen of Job's Daughters. We would have dances and 
parties and stuff at the ballroom, and I'd have to invite boys to go 
with me. I actually was even nominated for the homecoming 
queen. I was in the court, and I had to invite a boy to that because I 
wasn't dating.   
 One of the boys that I would invite was a guy named Jim Mucko, 
who my dad just loved because he was a farm boy and he had red 
hair. And he was tall, and gangly, and sort of a gee-whiz kind of 
guy. My dad just loved him. That was my dating history in high 
school. I did have one boyfriend, Charlie Terry, and I'm still in 
touch with Charlie. He lives in Santa Fe, and sends me jokes on the 
computer. I plan to go visit him when we start traveling after the 
first of the year. And my memory of him was making out on the 
couch in the basement while my parents were away, and all of a 
sudden realizing, "Uh-oh, this could go someplace that I don't want 
to go." And breaking up with him right then. It was like, "Uh-oh, 
that's too much." So  I graduated from high school.  
Raiskin:  What year did you graduate?  
Anderson:  I graduated from high school in 1965.  
Raiskin:  And you were born?  
Anderson:  In 1947. Okay, I graduated from high school and went to the 
University of Minnesota. And the significant thing about the 
University of Minnesota was— well, there were lots of significant 
things. But I met Bonnie my freshman year, we lived in a dorm and 
she lived across the hall. I just visited Bonnie, she's still my best 
friend. We would sit in the halls. I remember sitting on the stairs on 
the hall, and talking about all the stuff we were learning and 
humanities and stuff like that. Oh, it was so exciting! Things we 
were reading, and what it meant and what it meant for our lives.  
And we would take naps together, and cuddle up on those little 
single beds you have dorms and people thought we were lesbians. 
And  we thought, Well, that's ridiculous. Of course, we're not 
lesbians. We just love one another.  Second year at the university, I 
met Bill, Bill  Mittendorf, and Bonnie met Hugh. And the four of us 
became inseparable for the rest of our time at the University of 
Oregon— University of Minnesota, excuse me.  
 We're still in touch, the four of us, and we get together every  couple 
years. There were Bill and I, and Bonnie and Hugh. And here we 
are, fifty years later. That was '65. Fifty  years later, I'm a lesbian, 
Hugh's gay, Bonnie's bisexual, and Bill's married and has a couple 
of kids. Isn’t that funny? It was the whole spectrum. The whole 
spectrum. Anyway, we dropped acid and smoked dope. It's a 
wonder that I graduated from college, but I did.  
Raiskin:  Were there anti-war protests that you were involved in?. 
Anderson:  Oh, absolutely. University of Minnesota.  Bill and I actually went to 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin and walked in an open housing march with 
Father Groppi. I think his name was Groppi. He was a Catholic 
priest who was leading open housing marches in Milwaukee. We 
did that, and we were also involved with anti-war stuff. I 
remember being at home and watching TV when Kennedy was 
killed. That was a really incredible time.  
Raiskin:  Robert Kennedy?  
Anderson:  Yes. Robert Kennedy.   
Raiskin:  What was taking acid like?  
Anderson:  Oh, it's fun. I would do it again but I— here I am retired. I could do 
it again, couldn't I? But it was really fun. At the end of college, it 
was the Vietnam draft as well and Bill knew that he didn't want to 
go and serve in the military. So, he became a Peace Corps volunteer 
and spent, I think, three or four years in Afghanistan  as a Peace 
Corps volunteer. He and I had a very long distance relationships 
through  the mail. It's amazing.  I still have packs of letters that he 
sent me, and I don't know if he has packs of letters that I sent him. 
But I shared them with him recently and  actually passed them on 
because they were stories of his experience. But while Bill was in 
Afghanistan, I was in the process of figuring out my sexuality, 
which didn't help him one bit. Because he was missing me, and 
missing the United States, and missing  his life. And here I was 
coming out and being kind of mean to him because of that.  
Long:  Were you lovers with Bill?  
Anderson:  Oh yeah. We lived together actually. It was a pretty good, it was a 
positive relationship. 
Raiskin:  Why were you coming out?  
Anderson:  Well, okay, that's part of the story. I moved to Oregon, after a 
couple— I spent a couple years in Minneapolis, and then I moved 
to Oregon. Oh, I worked at the Mount Hood Community College 
Daycare Center.   
Raiskin:  What brought you to Oregon?  
Anderson:  My parents had moved to Portland between my sophomore and 
junior year, and they had really wanted me to move at that point, 
being the only child. But I had these strong relationships with 
Bonnie, Bill, and Hugh, and I wasn't about to leave the University 
of Minnesota. But a couple of years after we'd graduated, Bonnie 
was off to Europe, and Hugh was going to graduate school in 
Massachusetts, and Bill was in Afghanistan. And so I thought, what  
am I going to do?  I moved to Portland to be close to my  parents. I 
was living in Portland with two women, with Jan and Barbara. We 
lived in a house on the southeast side of Portland, a little bungalow 
with three bedrooms. I had the front bedroom, and Jan was next to 
me, and then Barbara had the back bedroom. We had a nice time, 
we were involved with— that was to the point when women's 
health issues were really a big deal. We were volunteering at the 
clinic. Two of us were. I was, and so was Jan. I was wearing contact 
lenses at that point.  
 And at one point, I'd worn them too long, and I got a corneal 
abrasion. I had to be in bed with a big patch over this eye. And I 
realized that when I went to bed, we were all on our own 
bedrooms. But when I woke up, Jan was in Barbara's bedroom. 
And I thought, Huh! How about that?! And it was like, "I think 
they're lesbians." I thought, Oh, what a good idea.  Literally, I had 
never really considered it for myself because I was on this  
heterosexual path. And it was like, "Oh, isn't this cool?" That was 
really something. I moved to San Francisco, and Bonnie—  
Raiskin:  Did you ever talk to them about it?  
Anderson:  Yeah, we talked about it. It was— when was that? Let's see. That 
was probably between 1970. And feminism, it was the second— 
what was it called? The second—  
Raiskin: Wave.  
Anderson:  Second-wave of feminism, that's what it was all about. That's what 
we were reading about. That's what our activism was. That's what 
we talked about. I moved to San Francisco. I don't remember why, 
but I did. And sure enough, so here comes Bonnie. I was telling her 
how cool it was, and how she should really come out. She moved to 
San Francisco as well, and we were living together. I took a class 
and became a professional masseuse, and really enjoyed that work. 
I worked for this woman, this German woman who— it was a 
clinic. It was a massage clinic and we all wore white uniforms, like 
nurses' uniforms, and white shoes. It was a really fun job actually, 
because people were coming in feeling like this  [gestures: shoulders 
close  to ears], and they go out feeling like that  [gestures: shoulders 
relaxed]. And that's very satisfying to give someone such 
immediate gratification. And of course, there were a couple of men 
who wanted extra favors, which I never granted. There was this 
one old guy who'd been a colonel in the army, because there's the 
Sixth Army headquarters are in San Francisco.   
He was a cavalry guy, and he still took care of the horses on the 
coast of San Francisco. So, he'd really like his butt massaged 
because had a sore butt. Anyway, that was a fun job. But I thought, 
there  must  be more to this intellectually, because it was a little 
intellectually not very challenging. I decided to go back to San 
Francisco State, go back to college, and start taking the classes that I  
never took. I hardly took any science classes when I was an 
undergraduate, because I was majoring in English. I started taking 
biology and physiology, and stuff like that, physics. And I just 
discovered, "I love this. This is so interesting." And I  got a job in 
physiology. Kinesiology was taught in the PE department. I got a 
job working for Bobby— no, no. I got a job working for a faculty 
member. I can't remember her name right now. If it comes to me, 
I'll tell you. In the PE department, and she was living in Half Moon 
Bay with her lesbian lover.  
 In the meantime, I got involved with the Women's Center on 
campus. And there, Jamie Ramirez was the student director of the 
Women's Center. And, I started taking classes from Sally Gearhart 
at San Francisco State.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?  
Anderson:  Oh, she’s  funny. She was incredibly bright. She's challenging. It 
was just so much fun.  
Long:  And what were the classes that she taught?  
Anderson:  I have no—   
Long:  Speech or theater?  
Anderson:  No, I think it was women's literature, or speech, or exploring 
feminism. God only knows. It would be really nice to know that, I 
wish I knew that. Actually, Bonnie ended up owning land with 
Sally Gearhart in— . 
Long:  Willits. 
Anderson:  Willits. Willits. Yeah, she still owns the land. And Sally, sad to say, 
has got Alzheimer's. But they've recently made a film that she's 
featured in. It was just shown at the Gay Pride Festival in San 
Francisco, I don't know if you've seen it. But I saw a little clip, it's 
when I saw Bonnie last week. Anyway, I remember there was a 
woman in my class though, with Sally, who had just left the 
convent and she was coming out. It was like we're all coming out at 
once. I started having this hot affair with Jamie Ramirez in the 
Women's Center, and I ended up having an affair with her 
girlfriend. It was just like everybody was— it was so much fun. I 
just want to tell you. Bonnie decided that— well, she had a couple 
of affairs with women too, also was having affairs with men. And I 
moved over to Noe Valley. I've always had a weight problem my 
whole life, and I started going to Weight Watchers.  
 I met this woman named Cheron  at Weight Watchers, and she had 
just been very successful. Cheron, I think she was working in a 
dental office at the time. I just totally— that was the first time I 
really fell in love with another woman. I don't know. It was— I  
don't know how to describe the affair other than we were together 
for quite a long time even after I'd moved to Eugene. Probably five 
years. But she'd been identified, self-identified  as a lesbian for a lot 
longer than I had. Probably since high school or maybe before. She 
was just ending a relationship with another woman. I don't know, 
we just had a wonderful time together. There you go. 
Raiskin:  What kind of things did you do socially together?  
Anderson:  Well, we were still doing drugs. The psychedelics stuff. Not 
anything bad for you  [laughs]. What did we do socially?  
Raiskin:  Did you go to any bars?  
Anderson:  I did. We did go in bars. We did go in bars. Not very much, though. 
I wasn't much into bars. I've  never been into drinking that much, 
and so we didn't go to bars. But there were lots of women's music 
back then, Holly Near, and Alix Dobkin, and Margie Adams, and 
all of that whole crew. We would go to women's music things 
together, and we'd hang out with other women.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what you were reading then?  
Anderson:  Mm-mm [negative]. You got some suggestions?  
Raiskin:  I was just thinking about how much lesbian publication there was. 
But what year is this though?  
Anderson:  This was '73, '74, '75.  
Raiskin:  So it's mostly feminist.   
Anderson:  Mostly feminist.  Yep. I remember all that, and then it was also 
crudely done in terms  of how it was published. It was like hand 
drawings on the front and big print. I don't know. And there was a 
lot of lesbian sexuality stuff back then, too.  
Raiskin:  Did you know gay men there?  
Anderson:  Yes, I did. But we didn't hang out much. Mostly it was the women's 
movement thing.  
Raiskin:  And you are still a student at this point?  
Anderson:  Yep. My goal was to be a physical therapist and I ended up, 
because I had this job at the PE department, discovering Athletic 
Training. That was very close to physical therapy, except that you 
are with healthy people in an athletic setting, rather than sick 
people in a hospital. And I go, "Oh, this is sounds a lot more fun." 
And discovered that the University of Oregon had a graduate 
program in Athletic Training, so that's what led me back here. But  
going back to Cheron  and my parents. All of this time, I was not 
out to my parents. I'd been formally out, probably from '72.  
Nineteen seventy-eight  is when I moved back to Oregon. So, [I was 
out] for five or six years. And at one point, Cheron  drove up with 
me to Portland to visit my parents. And in my bedroom at home, 
there were twin beds.  
 And similar to my experience with Barbara and Jan, my mother 
opened the door on us in the morning to wake us up and we had 
gone to bed in two beds, and we were now in one bed. Cheron  left  
the next day, so my mother was humphing around. And she said, "I 
hope you're not expecting me to be shocked." And I said, "Okay." I 
said, "But you know that we know lots of lesbians." And she said, 
"We do not." And gay people, and I said, "Well, what about Rock 
Hudson?", "Well, he's not gay." And I said, "Well, what about so 
and so." And this woman who was a friend of my grandmother's in 
Willmar, Minnesota, who was the PE teacher. "Well, she wasn't 
gay." Well, if she wasn’t gay, nobody was gay, ever in the whole 
world.  
 She was such a dyke. And through my newly opened eyes, I could 
tell that, but my mother couldn't. Anyway, she said, "Well, don't 
tell your father. You may not tell your father." And I never did. For 
the whole of his lifetime, I never told him. But I'm sure he figured it 
out. Because twenty  years later, thirty  years later, Evelyn and I got 
married and we told them. What’s he to  think? But I never said the 
“L word” ever in front of my father. But it was interesting. A 
couple years later, I think I was— my mother was very social, and 
my dad was a manager of a branch of an insurance company. It 
was a Minneapolis company, and he was the manager for Oregon. 
And they were having a cocktail party for all the people that work 
for him. The door into the hallway where the bedrooms were was 
closed, and I was sitting behind it listening to the party. I didn't 
want to go to the party.  
 And my mother was standing outside the door talking to someone, 
and she was telling them that I was a lesbian. And that it was okay  
with her, and that she was proud of me. So, my mother really got it, 
and she knew that I was okay. But she worried about me. She really 
worried about me until I got together with Evelyn. And then she 
stopped worrying because she knew that I had found the love of 
my life. It was really– ah, it sort of makes me cry. But I was really 
lucky that way. I think other people weren't so lucky. I haven't 
gotten to the Evelyn part of the story. I arrived in Eugene, this was 
in 1978, to go to graduate school at the University of Oregon. The 
deal about getting a degree in the PE department is it is the most 
closeted  department on campus. The PE department is full of 
lesbians. It's just packed with lesbians. Almost all the women there 
are lesbians. But do you ever acknowledge it? No.  
My friend Kate and I were both in the graduate program. She was 
from Seattle and come down to get her degree. We would go to the 
Riviera Room, and we would— all that kind of stuff. We would be 
involved with local women's issues, but we never talked about it at 
the University of Oregon.  
Raiskin:  Did you know any faculty who you thought were gay or lesbian?  
Anderson:  Oh, yeah. But I don't want to say their names because I don't know 
if they would appreciate that, but all these unmarried women. I 
mean, really. But before I met Kate, and before I got really 
involved, I remember moving here and I lived in a house on 
Twelfth and Washington. It was with easy walking distance to 
Gertrude's. You remember Gertrude's Café?   
Raiskin:  What did they have at Gertrude's?  
Anderson:  Gertrude's was a women's cafe that had coffee and meals, but it 
was mostly a gathering place for lesbians. I remember going there 
in jeans and a T-shirt and feeling overdressed  [chuckles]. Really, 
people were so into being dykey, it was just incredible. Anyway.  
Raiskin:  What did they wear?  
Anderson:  Oh, boots. They  were Hoedads. There were Hoedads, which were 
people who planted trees in the forest, which is a heavy duty job. 
So, they wore boots, and they wore jeans  jackets, and they wore 
shirts that were that tatters that had "Dyke" written across. I don't 
know. Here I was probably in a little flowered T-shirt and jeans. I 
don't know. But it was funny. There were hardly any femmy  dykes 
at Gertrude's. But there were all these gathering places. The 
bookstore at Mother Kali’s was owned by two lesbian women. 
Although I think it was a collective. I don't think it was actually 
owned by anybody other than  the collective. But there were lots of 
gathering places, and the Riviera Room. Here I was at graduate 
school moving past this, and Kate and I would go to the Riv Room. 
She had a problem with alcohol at that point, which I didn't really 
figure out until later, until she stopped drinking. I remember being 
there one night, and Russ Cagle, who was one of the faculty in the 
athletic training PE department, came in and sat down at the bar 
and had a drink.   
 Oh, my God, we were out. It was just— I was terribly embarrassed 
to have been found out by this faculty member.  
Raiskin:  Even though it was mutual.  
Anderson:  Well, I don't know if it was mutual. I don't know.  
Long:  Why did he go to a gay bar?  
Anderson:  I'm not sure if he was— I don't know. I don't know if he was aware 
that it was a gay bar, if he was seeing if any of his students were 
there, or if he was gay. But he didn't act very gay. He acted really 
macho kind of a guy. But I didn't know much about his personal 
life, so he might have been a macho gay guy. Who knows? Maybe 
he was just as embarrassed to see us, as we were to see him.  
Raiskin:  Did you dance at the Riv Room?  
Anderson:  Oh, yeah. Oh, dancing at the Riv Room. There was— this is one of 
these things that keeps coming up, I bet. Yup, we danced a lot at 
the Riv Room, it was fun. It was way  fun. 
Raiskin:  Were you ever there when the police came?  
Anderson:  I never was. I never was. Did they come?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Anderson:  No. At that time period, they came?  
Raiskin: Yeah.   
Anderson:  I never even heard about that. Huh.  
Long: And assaults.  
Anderson:  Really?  Huh.  [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  So you were studying to be now a sports— 
Anderson:  A sports athletic trainer.  
Raiskin:  —athletic trainer?  
Anderson:  Yeah. Certified Athletic Trainer. I graduated and I got a job at Lane 
Community College, often referred to as LCC. And again, it was in 
the PE department and there's a bunch of lesbians that are still 
around that you could talk to who have a whole different 
perspective on  being a lesbian or being gay. Because, I think they 
were gay for a  long time. Oh, dear. Okay. Do you want me to go 
into the awful stories?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Anderson:  Okay. When I was in San Francisco feeling sexually free, there was 
a bookstore, Good Vibrations. Actually they sold vibrators. Joani 
Blank was the owner of it. And somehow, someone asked if I 
would be willing to be in a book about masturbation. And I said, 
"Sure" [chuckles].  And it was a photography book, it was a picture 
book. I can't remember the name of the photographer, but she came 
to my house and I masturbated with this vibrator. And then the 
end— I started with my clothes  on, and ended up on the bed with  
my clothes off. That was years before, that was three or four years 
before and I got a job at Lane Community College. I was hanging 
out there and the sex education class had a visiting professor who 
came in with all of these books, and one of them was this 
photograph book with  me. And I even used my name, I said, 
"Janet." I didn't say, "Janet Anderson," thank God. Although I don't 
know what happened. One of the women on the basketball team 
went, "Hey, here's Janet." Oh, no! Sue Thompson was my boss.  
 The head of the department was Judy Drescher, Sue Thompson 
was the head of the Athletic Department. She called me into Judy 
Drescher's office, and they assumed that it was like white slavery, 
like I had been forced to do this and I did not disabuse of them of 
that notion. Here  was my job on the line because of some stupid 
thing that I had done. They sympathized with me, "Poor Janet, 
having been— “ 
Raiskin:  What did they call you in for though?  
Anderson:  The fact that I was in this book and that it had been revealed, and 
that was a problem with my job that I had been in a pornographic 
literature. It felt like it had been resolved, at least on that level. And 
then I went into— I had been asked by Bob Radcliffe, who taught 
strength training to come in and talk about sports injuries as related 
to strength training. And here's this girl, young woman in the 
class— who was also a lesbian, by the way, who had discovered me 
in the book and pointed it out to everyone in the department. She 
was just sitting in back like— [mimics quiet chuckling]. Bob  
Radcliffe introduced me and said, "This is Janet Anderson. She's 
our athletic trainer and she's agreed to come in and give us a hand." 
The whole class just broke out  in laughter. That's my 
embarrassing—  
Long:  What was the title of  the book? Would you want to say?  
Anderson:  What was the title of the book? It might have been Good 
Vibrations. I can't remember. I should go home and dig it out of 
this box. The bottom of the box in my closet. I don't have it on the 
shelf.  
Raiskin:  And put it in this collection. 
Anderson:  Yeah, okay. I will. Something good to do. The other thing is that the 
back of the book, here are all these photographs of people 
masturbating. And then at the back of the book, there was a whole 
color pictures of people's vulvas. And of course— well, anyway.  
Long:  Was it by Tee Corinne?  
Anderson:  Yeah. As a matter of fact, of course.  She was the photographer, 
right?  That's who it was.  
Raiskin:  She was the one that photographed you masturbating?  
Anderson:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. So, am I famous for that? 
Long:  Such a rare privilege to be photographed by Tee Corinne!  
Anderson:  In a compromising situation. Oh, dear. Okay. I actually became a 
faculty at Lane Community College because I had a master's degree 
and the  Faculty Union came and actually helped make me a 
faculty. And in the meantime, I was having a long distance 
relationship with Cheron. She was having other relationships. She 
not one to be— I was about to say monotonous, but I meant 
monogamous. She was having other relationships, and it just 
became clear at a certain point that this wasn't going to work out. 
She wasn't going to move to Eugene, and I wasn't going to move 
back to San Francisco. So, we broke up, and it sort of broke my 
heart because she was the first person that I've ever really, really 
been in love with. And so it took a long time after that before I 
found somebody. In the meantime, I was doing really fun and 
interesting work. Because being an athletic trainer was interesting 
and fun, mostly because of the relationships with the athletes. We 
would talk about interesting things and with both the men and the 
women.  
 They would come in to get their ankles taped, and watching people 
who were twenty  years younger than I am growing up was just 
really fun and interesting. But as a job, there's only so many ankles 
you can tape, or people to send them to the whirlpool, before it gets 
kind of dull. And, traveling with teams going to Pendleton to 
watch a basketball game and tape ankles— that's really, really dull. 
And so I got really involved with Women's Action for Nuclear 
Disarmament, and I was one of the organizers locally. I actually 
even got on the national board and went back to Washington D.C.  
to be on the board back there. But what came out of that was when 
talking about nuclear disarmament, basically it had to do with our 
antagonism to Russia, and the former Soviet Union. There was a 
trip offered, people-to-people trip from a group in Seattle called 
Earthstewards Network, and I decided I wanted to go on that. I 
think this was in 1985.  
 I went to the Soviet Union, and it was organized not by Intourist, 
which would have taken you to St. Basil's Cathedral, and the 
Hermitage, and all of those places but never have the opportunity 
to interact with people. This was organized by the organization that 
organized Soviet travel. We stayed at really tacky, awful hotels that 
Soviet citizens were staying at. And the food was just awful. But we 
got to go to labor union meetings, and we went to daycare centers, 
and we went to health care facilities. We went to collective farms 
and talked with collective people. We went to the women's groups 
and talked to the Soviet organizations for women that were 
organizing women. It was fascinating, and I decided that that's how 
I wanted to work for nuclear disarmament. Is that I wanted it to be 
a people to people thing, where we broke down cultural barriers 
and actually talked to the enemy. Because they kept going, "Oh, 
Americans. We love Americans." I started taking groups of women. 
“Women's Journeys For Peace” is what we called them. I was 
working for Earthstewards Network at that point, but basically 
taking trips of groups of women to the former Soviet Union. I was 
doing this in the summers when I wasn't being an athletic trainer.   
Raiskin:  What year was it?  
Anderson:  This was an '86.  
Raiskin:  And still Soviet Union?  
Anderson:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. It was the Soviet Union until '89. In '87, I 
organized an exchange. An exchange of track and field athletes. We 
took thirteen  track and field athletes from the community colleges 
in Oregon and Washington, the Northwest Athletic Association for 
Community Colleges. We took them to the Soviet Union, and they 
were in some— we went to some athletic camps where Soviet kids 
were training. And they were in a couple of meets. We stayed in 
youth hotels where Sputnik— we were traveling with Sputnik as 
opposed to Intourist. That was the name of the organization. We 
stayed in these youth hotels where Soviet youth would go on 
vacation,  and that  was just fascinating. We were taking kids from 
Pendleton and Eastern Washington that had never been to— I don't 
know, California, and here they were in the Soviet Union. Their 
experience of cultural differences was huge. It was really fun.  And 
then the next summer we brought Soviet track and field athletes 
here. And of course, they weren't going  to send their losers. They 
were really quite good athletes. They were in the appropriate age 
range, but on their way to being Olympic athletes. And  my favorite 
person on that trip was a guy named Yuri Repnikov. And Yuri, was 
a folk singer. They had sent him along to keep up the spirits, so that 
people could sing together. He and I developed a relationship and 
then I went to visit  him several times— he lived in Kiev, he and his  
wife. And then he— Chernobyl, which was a huge nuclear disaster 
that happened around that time. He was sent to Chernobyl to cheer 
of the people who are  cleaning up Chernobyl. He's gone now.  
But he was a wonderful, wonderful soul. I decided to— well, my 
job got cut in half because Lane Community College was having 
financial difficulties. And one of the ways that they thought they 
could save money was by making me instead of full-time, making 
me halftime. I decided to leave at that point and start my own 
company, which was a track and field— which was an exchange 
program between USA and USSR. It's called Link Up International, 
and it was a nonprofit. It was extremely nonprofit because I wasn't 
making any money I was— I was just making fun things to do. I 
did two more exchanges, bringing people there and bringing 
Soviets here. Altogether in  between  '84 and '89, I probably traveled 
back and forth to the Soviet Union about ten to fifteen  times. It was 
really fun.  
Raiskin:  Did you speak any Russian?  
Anderson:  Yes, I came back to the University of Oregon and took Russian 
from Fred Beebe, I think his name was. He was an odd duck, but 
this talk isn't about Fred Beebe. I learned some Russian and so I 
could have a conversation with someone that was like on a third 
grade level. Russian is a really complicated language, and I never 
got very good at it. But I could say greetings, and I could have 
conversations. I remember trying to have really serious in depth 
conversations that a three  year old might have, and not having the  
resources to talk about anything more in depth. But a lot of the 
exchanges ended up being with what's now the Ukraine. It was 
people in Kiev, and Lviv, and so forth. It was very cool.  
Raiskin:  And was there any space to be out in this work?  
Anderson:  I remember— it wasn't as through the Soviet Union wasn't creepy. 
The same kind of state that tries to manipulate you. As a matter of 
fact, I probably have a State Department file and I have always 
wanted to ask for it because it would be really interesting to see 
what the State Department was looking at. Because at one point 
when I was living in Eugene over by Monroe Park, we had some 
muckety-muck visiting us from the Soviet Embassy. I remember 
giving him a ride in the car, we drove up to Portland  together. I'm 
sure I have a—  
Raiskin:  Background check.  
Anderson:  Background check.  But I remember someone confronting me about 
being a lesbian in the Soviet Union. It was a woman, she was 
Jewish. I remember getting furious at her and taking her aside and 
saying, "Listen, you're Jewish, and I'm a lesbian. So what? You have 
no right to be calling me on the line for being a lesbian."  
Raiskin:  She was American?  
Anderson:  No, she was Soviet.  She should— here her people have been just 
incredibly discriminated against in the Soviet Union as being 
Jewish, and she was calling me up for being lesbian. Are you  
kidding? Anyway, I said, "Layoff, lady." And she did. Okay, where 
am I in my story? Okay, WAND, Soviet Union. In 1986 in the midst 
of my getting involved with  the USSR and still being at Lane 
Community College, there was a women's celebration on the sixth  
of March, International Women's Day. It was in the basement of the 
Presbyterian Church, and it was organized by this woman who was 
the president of the board at Rape Crisis Network. Her name was 
Evelyn Anderton. I was there to advertise Women's Journey for 
Peace and to get people to go with me. And Evelyn was at the Rape 
Crisis table and I had actually— she had caught my eye before at a 
party that I'd been to. But she was with somebody else at the time 
and I remember saying to somebody, [whispers] "Who is that 
woman? And who is that woman?"  
 And they said, "Well that's Evelyn Anderton, but she's with so and 
so." And I can't remember her name, I'm sorry. So I said, "Well, 
she's with somebody else." I approached her and asked her if she'd 
like to go the Soviet Union, and she had just been traveling. She'd 
been traveling, went to China, and then she went to Australia, New 
Zealand. She just spent all this travel time and money and wasn't 
about to have the time and energy to go, but we connected. And 
my friend Kate, who I referred to earlier that we'd gone to the Riv 
Room, she was back in town because her partner, Deborah, was in 
graduate school at the University of Oregon getting her Ph.D. in 
counseling or psychology. And I asked Evelyn  out. I was living on 
one corner at Twelfth and  Monroe, and they were living at the 
other corner opposite the park.   
I remember going over to their house and going, "What should  I 
wear?  What if she doesn't like me?" And then I said, "What if she 
does?" We went to— there was a concert at the Hult  Center, and 
then we kept dating and— 
Raiskin:  What happened to her girlfriend?  
Anderson:  They had broken up by this point. This is about six months, a year 
later. And then our next date we went to the Eugene Celebration 
crowning of the S.L.U.G. Queen, that was a- 
Raiskin:  Can you describe that?  
Anderson:  Oh, the S.L.U.G. Queen. City of Eugene had a festival every year 
called the Eugene Celebration, and it was full of frivolity and 
silliness. And every year they would select a S.L.U.G. Queen, and 
the S.L.U.G. Queen would wear ridiculous costumes and be 
outrageous, as outrageous as they possibly could. And sing 
ridiculous songs and do comedy routines as part  of their selection 
process. That was the S.L.U.G. Queen, it was a very cultural 
experience. Of course, this was in the summer of 1986 and I wanted 
to move in. I was in love with her. This was it. I found the woman 
of my dreams. I wanted to move in, because it's a typical—  
Raiskin:  What was it that made you fall in love with her?  
Anderson:  Oh, she was smart, and she was funny, she was interesting. She's a 
wonderful woman, she has a kind heart. She had had interesting— 
she was a  feminist. What's not to love about Evelyn? She was a  
totally different background than I came. Here I, a Minnesota 
Scandinavian single child. And she was San Francisco Irish 
Catholic, six children in her family. It was totally different 
backgrounds, that really attracted me to her. She loved cats, I love 
dogs. I don't know what attracted me to her. She was wonderful. 
Anyway, I wanted— this is the lesbian thing, you meet somebody, 
you fall in love, and you move in. Like that  [snaps fingers]. And 
she said, "Uh-uh. No, absolutely. I've made too many mistakes in 
relationships, we're not going to move in together." She said, "I 
wouldn't move in with you until we go through counseling."  I said, 
"All right." And we started seeing a lesbian counselor. She took us 
through all this relationship stuff. We probably saw her for a year.
 Although at the beginning we saw her every week, and then 
we saw her every other week, and then we saw her once a month. I 
remember me saying— I remember I'd be questioning something 
that had happened, and the counselor said, "Wait a second. Wait a 
second. We talked about that months ago, remember?" She was a 
really good counselor. She would actually remember what you 
said. She was really good.  
Raiskin:  What was her name?  
Anderson:  I can't remember  [Mary Ann Klausner]. It would come to me if I 
thought about it harder. I'll let you know if it pops up. Anyway, it 
got to the point where we were talking about things like where to 
put the TV. Because Evelyn didn't want that to be prominent in the 
house, and I sort of wanted to have it available to watch. Down to  
that level of conflict resolution, which is so miniscule and small, but 
I think can really ruin people's relationships, because they're not 
used to dealing with the conflict of everyday life. It was so 
valuable. Oh gosh, I wish I could remember her name. I'll have to 
call Evelyn and ask her. Anyway, after a year, in June of 1987, we 
moved in together.  
Raiskin:  How long have you been together now?  
Anderson:  Well, we've been together, it's thirty-two years, right? '87, '97, 2007. 
Almost thirty-two years. Well, thirty-two if you count when we 
met, which was in '86. And we've had a wonderful life together. 
And as I said, when I first introduced my mother to Evelyn— 
Evelyn to my mother, and when I moved in with her, my mother 
had a sigh of relief and she stopped treating me like a child. Here I 
was forty  years old and my mother finally stopped treating me like 
a child. I think, lucky for the people that get married young, they 
can have a different relationship with their parents. But my mother 
also loved Evelyn. As a matter of fact, she would introduce her as, 
"My other daughter." And my dad loved Evelyn, too. My dad 
would be in his chair, and Evelyn would lie on the sofa and they'd 
watch baseball together. He really liked her, too. Obviously, he 
figured out that we were life partners, so there you go. That's the 
story.  
 Oh, I know.  I'd been doing Link Up International, and Evelyn had 
still been volunteering. She'd gotten a small inheritance and she 
could live on that for a while. It got to the point that every month  
when we'd pay our bills, I'd break into tears because— you didn't 
make any money doing nonprofit exchanges with the Soviet Union. 
We were looking for a job, each of us. We saw this job advertised at 
Womenspace, which is the battered women's or domestic violence 
program in— serves Lane County, Oregon.  We applied together 
and got the job as co-directors. It was a very small organization  at 
that point, the offices were in a garage in the back of the shelter. 
There wasn't a program in the schools, and there wasn't a program 
for people who were leaving domestic violence situation and 
transitioning. There was no transitional program. It was this tiny 
little office in the garage. And we did that for a couple of years, 
about a year and a half. I took the fundraising part of the job, and 
Evelyn took the operational part of the job.  
 I was going to United Way meetings and so forth. What ended up  
happening, was that we were all consumed by this job and this 
issue. We couldn't talk about anything else. We never got away 
from work, because we were talking about employees, and women, 
and whether or not— we'd been donated a Cadillac by somebody. 
This old big Cadillac, which is we would drive out to the restaurant 
where people would go when we would meet them. We'd drive 
this great big Cadillac out to pick them up and their kids. I really 
enjoyed the United Way portion of it, and so I ended up getting a  
job at United Way and Evelyn became the full-time director. She 
was the director at Womenspace for about eleven  years. It was an 
incredibly stressful job, as you can imagine. Because not only is the 
work stressful, but it affects employees. It was stressful for  
everybody. And being a supervisor of employees that are under 
stress is not fun. I would help out, and we'd do a lot of jigsaw 
puzzles.  
 Because when you're doing a jigsaw puzzle, all you can really think 
about is, "Where's that little green piece that goes in the upper right 
corner? That has three ”innies”  and an “outy”. It's perfect medicine 
for stress relief. Anyway, I loved my job at United Way. I'm a 
natural extrovert, and so being at United Way— first I was working 
in the part of United Way where you work with the agencies. And 
then I transitioned from that into the part where you're actually 
doing campaigns and businesses, and that was fun, because I got to 
know all sorts of business people and all sorts of work situations 
that were really interesting.  Weyerhaeuser  was really an interesting 
company. I have a lot more tolerance than  a lot of lesbian feminists 
for capitalism, because of my experience with United Way. Because 
I met some really fine people. I just had a discussion recently with 
somebody who's a young dyke  working in the Forest Service, who 
is just so antagonistic towards lumber companies.  
 And it's like, I actually don't mind tree plantations. This is terribly 
politically incorrect. But I live in a wooden house, and I have 
wooden furniture, and people are making their livings doing this. If 
they want to have a tree plantation where they grow fir so it meets 
our needs, I think that's fine. And the Forest Service, they don't 
have  to deal with national forests. Stay out of forests. We don't  
come out against corn farmers— although  maybe we do. Or 
hazelnut farmers. Anyway, I digress.  
Raiskin:  These people, they were on the board? Or they would donate? 
Anderson:  No. I would go into companies and speak to the employee groups.  
Raiskin:  About?  
Anderson:  About social service agencies and about how they could help feed 
people, and clothe people, and help women in domestic violence, 
or help kids at Parenting Now!, or Birth to Three as it was called 
then. Basically what happens at United Way is that you give a 
portion of your paycheck every paycheck to United Way, and then 
United Way divides among the agencies. It was the exposure to 
businesses of actually meeting with the workers.  
Raiskin:  How many organizations were under United Way?  
Anderson:  I think there were twenty-five to thirty. It was a nice— it included 
things like the Boy Scouts, and  Girl Scouts, and Camp Fire. It was 
the youth development organizations, and then there were the 
food, housing, medical care, White Bird Clinic, all that kind of 
thing. And then it was people with disabilities, Pearl Buck Center, 
Direction Services, Alvord-Taylor.  
Raiskin:  Mobility International?   
Anderson:  No. Nope. Mobility was never— no, huh-uh [negative]. But that's 
the other thing that we like to do in our relationship, which we love 
to host international visitors. We've hosted tons and tons of people.  
Raiskin:  You mean when women come for Mobility International, they stay 
with you and homestay?  
Anderson:  Yeah.  Mobility International, we do it with— Evelyn today is 
picking up Filadelfia. Filadelfia is a woman from Uzbekistan from 
Tashkent, who is going to be studying at the University of Oregon. 
She's going to stay with us for two weeks before she moves into the 
dorm.  
Raiskin:  How did she come by the name Filadelfia?  
Anderson:  They have six kids and her father— all of them are in the medical 
field. And I think her father had  aspirations for her to come to 
America, and  he named her Filadelfia. It's F-I-L-A-D-E-L-F-I-A, 
Filadelfia. We get to meet her this afternoon. Evelyn's picking her 
up today. Those two places, Mobility. Oh, and we have hosted 
people from the Eugene Opera who come to visit, and that's been 
fun. We've actually visited these people we  hosted. We went to 
Bahrain, where we had— Faten was one of our homestay people, 
and she said, "Come and visit." And we thought, Really? Bahrain?  
You know where Bahrain is? It's in  the right hand lower part of the 
Saudi peninsula, and it's right on the Persian Gulf. We said, "Yeah, 
we'll come and visit." I don't think she ever expected that we 
actually would because Muslim families are very close. It's one of  
those cultures, and they don't have— their  homes are very family 
oriented, and they don't have parties and invite people over. If they 
have a party, they have it outside their home, but not inside.  
 We went and spent two weeks with her. You don't like to go 
someplace and  come back home— actually, we spent a week with 
her. We looked at the map and there was Iran right across the  
Persian Gulf. And we thought, Let's go to Iran.  This was about five 
years ago. In about 2013, we went to the organization that I had 
worked with in Seattle organizing Soviet trips and said, "Can you 
get us into Iran?" And he did all the research and found the 
organization in Iran that was the travel agency. And we went 
through him and bought the tickets, and we said, "We want a 
woman guide. We don't want any male guide. We want a woman 
guide." The trip was the two of us and the woman guide, and we 
went to three different cities. We had a driver who supposedly 
didn't speak English, although when we asked our guide a 
question that she didn't want to  answer, she would answer a 
different question. So, I think that he did  understand English.  
 And we wore scarves, and it was in the winter and so we wore long 
black coats. Anyway, where was I? United Way. Okay, so I went 
from doing the business part of United Way to doing major gifts, 
and in that case I was asking wealthy individuals in town for—it 
started out being a  $1,000. We started in leadership giving society 
of people to give $1,000 a year, and then we started a different  
society for people to give $10,000 a year. I met a lot of the movers 
and shakers in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  How do you cultivate those relationships?  
Anderson:  How do I cultivate those relationships? By being interested in 
people and getting to know their families, and memorizing the 
names. I used to know the names of lots of wives and children. And 
then I got to know the wives, and there are  social events. And you 
get to know their business and you ask them about their business. 
It's just being social, and appreciating them, and thanking them, 
and then telling the story. Because people are interested actually in 
the story of what's going on in whatever it is at Womenspace, or at 
Birth to Three, or at Boy Scouts, or whatever. And so telling them 
stories about what their money is doing, and what a difference 
they're making in the world, and how  grateful you are for that. 
From United— and then I was out. After I left my community 
college as the athletic trainer, I've been out the whole rest of the 
time. I was not ever going to get a job where I had to lie about who 
I was.  
Raiskin:  How is it coming out? How do you come out? And what's the 
opportunities to come out in this kind of business relationship?  
Anderson:  I would introduce Evelyn as my partner. Bonnie— going back way 
to Bonnie.  Evelyn and I are planning a trip to the deep South after 
the first of the year, and we want to do this because for a bunch of 
reasons. But Bonnie made me promise that I wouldn't come out to  
somebody the first thing, "Will you please not tell someone that,  
'This is my wife and we were  married three years ago.'?" I'm not 
hesitant about coming out to pretty much anybody.  
Raiskin:  It is hard to come out. And if you're— you have to do it some way.  
By introducing Evelyn, you can do that. When you have the 
women coming to homestays from Mobility International, are you 
out to them from different parts of the world?  
Anderson:  Well, we go to bed in the same bed. And we don't necessarily talk 
about getting married or being lesbians, but I think they figure it 
out really quickly.  
Raiskin:  I wonder what they think coming from some of the countries that 
come from where it's illegal?  
Anderson:  Yeah. One of the people— okay, so our current people in town, 
because you host somebody from the university one year and then 
they  stay for the next five. And then they come to Thanksgiving, 
and they will come for the birthday, so we maintain relationships 
with them. And the people that are in town right now are two 
young women from China, both undergraduates at the University 
of Oregon. They're not very curious. It's interesting. They just 
accept it as the way it is. And the other two is a woman from Iran 
who's who finally got a G.E. Is that what they call that? Graduate 
employment?  
Raiskin:  Yeah, graduate employee.   
Anderson:  A graduate employee so she can stay. She got a graduate degree in 
Italian, and then she got a graduate degree in International 
relations. And now she's entering the business school to get an 
M.B.A. She's just really doesn't want to go home. Marzieh  is her 
name, and she's very international. She's very sophisticated and she 
got it right away. Farah is the other student and she's from 
Pakistan, very wealthy family in Pakistan. Getting a Ph.D. in 
journalism, and she's sophisticated enough, too and they both 
celebrated our anniversary. We invited them to our wedding. I 
don't know. Nobody's ever gone, "I'm not going to stay with them 
because they're lesbians." I think they're just so grateful to have two 
friendly people welcoming them to the United States.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about your weddings, or wedding?  
Anderson:  Well, we got domestically partnered when that became legal. We 
were one of the first fifty people in line. And our best friend Jan 
and Penny— Penny Palmer and Jan Becker, do you know them? 
No? They came down to help us celebrate and then they thought, 
Well, let's do it, too. Sally Sheklow  was there giving away pie slices 
and stuff, it was really fun. We did that.  
Raiskin:  This was a domestic partnership?  
Anderson:  Domestic partnership.  
Raiskin: What year was that? Do you remember?   
Anderson:  No. Do you remember? It was in the '90s, wasn't it? It wasn't in the 
2000's. I don't think. I would think it's in the late '90s. Or was it— 
Long:  I don't know. It was after the ballot measures.  
Anderson:  Okay. It was— 
Long:  It was in the twenty-first century.  
Anderson:  Okay. In the twenty-first century. There you go. If I had my phone, 
I could look it up. But then, marriage got legalized by the Supreme 
Court, gay marriage. And that was three years ago.  
Raiskin:  2015.  
Anderson:  Yeah, 2015. And it was legalized in June, I think. Or May or June, 
sometimes like that. We planned our wedding for August. We were 
not going to be sitting around. The other  thing that happened that's 
interesting in terms of our life is that I had been raised 
Episcopalian, and Evelyn had been raised Catholic, and neither of 
us had been to church since college. We went to college and we 
graduated from Christianity. And my mother— my dad died in 
2003, and my mother moved here in 2005— my dad died in 2001, 
my mother moved here in 2003. And she was still an Episcopalian. 
Had been staunch Episcopalian, very involved at the church. She 
was one of the people that counted the money, my dad mowed the 
lawn. He was on vestry. We started going to  church with her at the 
Episcopal Church over on Coburg Road, St. Bartholomew's. We  
would sit in the pew and we'd listen to this service and both of us 
would be weeping by the end of it.  
 It was like this whole spiritual part of ourselves that we had been  
totally ignoring all this time. We're not the kind of people that get 
into Buddhism, or the other non-Western religions. I think that 
there are people that find solace, and comfort, and enlightenment 
there. But, we're kind of ordinary mainstream gals. Going to a 
Christian church just felt  like the right thing to do. We started 
going to church there. My mom got too sick to go and we 
continued to go. And one Sunday, the minister who was English 
preached a sermon against gays and lesbians and called it  sinful. 
And we were astonished. It was 2004. And what on earth was he 
thinking? We went in and talked to him and made an appointment 
and said, "What are you talking about?" And he said, "Well..." It 
was in the Bible. It says that marriage is a institution  between men 
and women for the purpose of having children. And we said, "But 
we're fifty years old, we can't have children. What are you talking 
about? That that doesn't apply. That doesn't apply to human 
beings. Not everyone wants children. Besides, it has to do with love 
and not about having children. And the Bible doesn't say that 
anyway. And even if it did, it's wrong." Anyway, so we stopped 
going to that church and we started looking around for a church 
that we could go to because we wanted to experience Christianity. 
So, we found First Christian Church, Twelfth  and Oak. Dan Bryant 
was the minister and we'd known Dan Bryant for years. Worked 
with him, he's very involved with Health and Human Services  and  
with helping the poor. We started going there, and it felt like home. 
We've started doing that. Back to the wedding. It wasn't a problem 
finding a place for the wedding. We called up Dan and April—
there’s now a woman  minister. We wanted them both involved 
because April was wonderful. We started planning in June and by 
August, the end of August, the thirtieth  of August is our 
anniversary. I think we had 150 people there. It was great, it was so 
much fun.  
 I've gotten involved in the meantime volunteering. I've retired, and 
I've gotten involved with the Assistance League of Eugene. I found 
my dress at the Assistance League, I paid $8 for it. Evelyn went to 
the Folkways and spent over $100 for hers. But she doesn't wear 
dresses, so she needed the practice. But the church has miserable 
space for a reception. It's just— the church is over 100 years old, 
and the basement of the church is where homeless people  sleep all 
winter long. We didn't want to have the reception there,  but Lane 
Community College had just built a lovely new downtown 
building that had these conference rooms and meeting spaces that 
were just lovely. That would seem so appropriate, because here I 
was a former employee of Lane Community College. We arranged 
to have the reception there. Well, that is about four blocks away 
from the  church. We thought, Here's an opportunity.  We bought 
everyone in the congregation a purple pom-pom.  
 And we hired the One More Time Marching Band, which is made 
up of men and women who played in bands when they were in  
high school, who are now in their forties, fifties  and sixties. They 
led a parade of all of us from the church over to Lane Community 
College Downtown Center with purple pom-poms. My friend Steve 
who is a straight as straight can be who has joined Rotary the same 
time I did, he got up at Rotary the next Friday and said, "I just want 
to tell you, I have $5, a happy buck, to tell you that I spent last 
Saturday at Janet Anderson's wedding." He said, "I never thought 
I'd go to a lesbian wedding and march down the street with a 
purple pom-pom."  
 Because of my experience after I was at United Way, I got to be the 
director of the Lane Community College Foundation and I spent 
the last ten years of my career there. Because of both of those 
situations that United Way and at Lane Community College, about 
half our  friends are lesbians. Our closest friends are lesbians. The 
people that we spend most of our time socializing with. But a 
whole bunch of people that I know and love in  this community are 
straight, and I like that about our life.  
Raiskin:  When I think about the kind of education that you've given to a 
good swath of Eugene that isn't gay. Yeah, it's interesting living.  
Anderson:  Yeah. The people that didn't think they knew any gay people, now 
do. Earlier in this conversation, I alluded to the fact that I've always 
had a weight problem. And when I left LCC and retired, I decided 
it was time to start paying attention to this. I decided I wanted to 
kick it off by going to a spa. I did all sorts of research about spas. 
You sit at the computer and you look at the pictures of all these  
different places, weight loss spa. And every single one of them, the 
pictures that they had online were just  of thin people. And I 
thought  Who wants to go there? I'd be the only fat person there, I 
don't want to go there.  And then I found this place at Duke 
University called the Duke University Diet and Fitness Center, and 
they have pictures  of fat people. And I thought, There's where I 
want  to go.  And I went for the first time when I retired in 2013, and 
Evelyn went with me. It was a four week program.  
 And every week, besides— you go to classes all day long, they feed 
you three meals a day. You get there at 7:30 and have breakfast, 
and then goes to the water aerobics class. And then you get dressed 
and go through nutrition class. Plus every week, you see a 
nutritionist, a counselor, a therapist, the medical people, and a 
fitness specialist. And we were there for four weeks. Evelyn was 
there  as a support person, which is how she is. She's just so 
wonderful. And within the next year, I lost ninety  pounds. I pretty 
much managed to keep it off. I gain back ten or twenty, and then I 
lose it. I don't know why I'm telling you this story.  
Raiskin:  You found a new phase of your life.  
Anderson:  Yeah. Retirement.  
Raiskin:  You have time to attend to things that have been on the back 
burner.  
Anderson:  Exactly. Exactly. Oh, I know. This last time I went— I've been the 
first time for four weeks with Evelyn. And then I've been back  
twice more. And the last time I went was in May, and my friend 
Bonnie, my  best friend, she went with me. And that's where she's 
said— it’s about coming out. Pretty much I came out  to everybody 
there, and I came out pretty quickly. Because why beat around the 
bush? Plus the fact that there were two other lesbians there who 
weren't coming out to anybody. And after I did, they did.  
Raiskin:  You had sensed that they were.  
Anderson:  Oh, yeah. We know. We were at a memorial service last Saturday, 
and there were two women there. I said to Evelyn, "Look, we got 
some more lesbians over there." And she said, "Yeah, you can tell 
by their shoes." You know, sensible shoes that we wear. Anyway, 
that's when Bonnie said, "Janet, if you go to the South, promise me 
that you aren't going to say, 'Oh, this is my wife lesbian ...'" my wife 
lesbian. "... my wife Evelyn." Within the first three minutes when I 
meet someone. She's worried about my safety in the deep south, 
and I guess we should worry about that.  
Raiskin:  Where are you going?  
Anderson:  We want to go to— we’ve  been to the big cities. We've been to New 
Orleans, we've been to Atlanta. Been to Durham and Raleigh. But 
we've never been in Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia— well, Atlanta. 
South Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky.  
Raiskin:  Would you look up gay organizations there? Or gay hostels? Or— I 
don't know.   
Anderson:  Yeah. A lot of the people I went to Duke with live in the South, and 
so looking up them. Looking up gay organizations. I'd like to go to 
a black church or a bunch of black churches. We keep saying, "Oh, 
let's do that. Oh, let's do that." How to connect with people. We're 
reading some interesting books. I'm reading a book called Deep 
South  by Paul Theroux. Some of it sounds pretty scary. Then there's 
going to Graceland and seeing Elvis Presley's  home. Going to the 
Grand Ole Opry, going to the stuff like that. Evelyn's a horse 
woman, she's ridden horses. Going to the Kentucky horse places. I 
don't know.  
Raiskin:  So you both have traveled a lot, and so you're planning to travel 
more in your retirement?  
Anderson:  We have. We've traveled a lot. And a lot in the Middle East, which 
has been really interesting. We traveled to Egypt, and Turkey, and  
Bahrain, and Iran, and Jordan. We did  that part. And we've 
traveled in Asia, we've been to Thailand, and Vietnam, and 
Cambodia, and China. But we like experiencing places with 
different cultures. And so we thought, there  is one right in our own 
country.  I started on this before. But part of the reason that we want 
to go is to experience a different culture, but also I want to learn 
how to be more tolerant. And I want to learn how to be able to 
listen to someone and maintain a relationship. One of the things 
that happened the last time I was at Duke is that there was this 
couple from Texas. It was Maria and Larry, and we had the best 
time. We'd eat meals together, we went out to dinner together. You  
get to go out Saturday and Sunday night, and that’s your  free 
meals. We'd laugh a lot. We had the same sense of humor. We just 
had the best time.  
 But twice, she was— they're both well educated. He was an 
engineer. She had executive positions with Exxon, internationally. 
She was in charge of human resources for Exxon in Palau. And then 
in China. I can't remember where exactly. Anyway, one day we had 
a conversation on gun control. They were here and we were here. 
And so we went on. And then, a couple days later we had a 
conversation about immigration. We couldn't have been further 
apart, and it really upset me. At one point, Maria said— and her 
background, by the way is that she was a Cuban refugee. And I 
think Cuban refugees tend to be really, really conservative. She 
said, "Do you know— " And her son had married a Latino and was 
living down in Brownsville, Texas. She said, "Do you know that in 
Brownsville, they give free meals to children and they aren't even 
citizens?" I was like, "We don't want people starving in America." I 
was just— 
Raiskin:  And you'd come from United Way.  
Anderson:  I know. I was just furious and upset. I went home. And here's this 
woman that I really liked having this horrible point of view. I went 
in the next morning and I said, "Maria, I really don't want our 
conversation yesterday to interfere with our friendship, because I 
really like you guys." She said, "Oh, that was just politics." And I 
want to be able to call on a reserve like that so that— it just makes  
me want to cry  [Janet tears up].  That I can be different  from 
somebody and still have a conversation with them. That people 
cannot be a lesbian and still love me. That they can be Republican 
and I can still care for them. And if things have gotten so polarized 
in the United States, that is really hard to do.  
Raiskin:  Most of your lifetime work has been about connection, and things 
are so different right now.  
Anderson:  Yeah. And I don't think it's just their fault. And you know who they 
are. I think it's our fault, too. There was an article in The New York 
Times  today about the economic crash in 2008, and what happens 
after the economic crashes often is there's a rise of populism. And 
that both on the right and on the left, people are more 
confrontational and unable to hear each other. I think that's what's 
happened. And the scary thing is— they've done this research all 
over the world. In economies in Africa, and South America, and 
Asia, and Europe. That what happens after this populist uprising is 
that it often leads to war, and they likened it to the Great 
Depression. And that there were populist uprisings then, and 
where did it go? It led to World War II. There's something to be 
scared about. Anyway, that's why we want to go to the South.  
Raiskin:  What sounds like a lot of what you do for entertainment or—  
Anderson:  Entertainment—  
Raiskin:  —or the things that you want to do in retirement, you're still 
learning. You're still wanting to learn, and change, and grow.   
Anderson:  Yeah, absolutely. And buy cheap clothes at thrift  shops. I want to 
visit thrift  shops in the South.  
Raiskin:  Do you think about particular issues about aging? 
Anderson:  Gosh, we  don't have  very many years left. It sounds kind of scary. 
One of the things that's positive about my losing weight and 
having two knee surgeries is I'm more active than I've been in 
twenty-five years. And that's a good thing about aging. Because I 
don't have siblings, and because we didn't have children, I worry 
about aging and who's going to take care of me. Especially if 
Evelyn dies first.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any ideal images or ideas about that?  
Anderson:  Ideal images about?  
Raiskin:  About where you might want to age. Or if you were to go into 
assisted living, what that might be like as a lesbian. Any ideas 
about that?  
Anderson:  Yeah. I'm trying to get everybody I know to agree to go into senior 
living together.  
Raiskin:  Have you chosen one?  
Anderson:  Huh?  
Raiskin:  Have you chosen one?   
Anderson:  No. No. I like the notion of going into senior living that has levels 
of care. Cascade Manor makes sense, but it's so expensive and not 
everybody I love could go there. My friend Barbara has just moved 
into Washington Abbey, which doesn't have levels of care, but boy, 
is she happy. Her partner, Jean, died of cancer and they were very 
isolated. I think I'm her only friend in Eugene that she  still sees. 
She's very close to her kids, who all live in Washington. She's got 
this huge Facebook relationship with them. But literally, I'm her 
only friend in Eugene. And now her social circle is expanded to  the 
other people that live at Washington Abbey, and she has dinner 
with people, and she goes to groups and does yoga. And I don't 
think that she's in the closet there. I think she talks about Jean. She 
said, there are some people that are very intolerant,  but I don't 
think that's— and there's another gay man that lives there. But I 
think that she's found acceptance there as a lesbian.  
 I don't worry about being around straight people, because I've been 
out for such a long time.  I don't worry about discrimination. If 
people discriminate against me, it’s like I told the Soviet woman, 
"Get over it." My doctor is a lesbian. My dentist is a lesbian. What I 
do worry about actually is more of the lesbian movement going 
away, and the new focus on gender/transgender stuff. It isn't as 
though women's issues are totally resolved and we're free at last. It 
bothers me that there isn't a place for lesbians anymore other than 
the Women's Studies Department. At Lane Community College 
there used to be a women's center, and now it's a gender center. I 
guess my focus has not so much been on lesbian issues politically,  
it's been more of a feminist perspective for all women. But I don't 
even see that being very— we need a third-wave of feminism, and 
who knows when that's going to happen? Maybe when this one has 
gone away.  
 There was a great quote by Warren Buffett in the paper this 
morning about the articles about the populism, and it was, "You 
never know when  someone's swimming naked until the tide goes 
out." And it was in response to you never know when somebody's 
swimming naked— it was talking about the companies that were 
being leveraged to the “nth”  degree, and then the economy— so it 
doesn't have anything to do with this conversation, but I loved it. I 
loved the quote.  
Raiskin: I'm wondering. I was thinking about are we in the midst of a 
change from a kind of feminism to a new kind of feminism? And 
the #MeToo  movement, and that things might be happening. It's 
hard to see when you're in the midst of it, what change is 
happening in terms of feminism.  
Anderson:  The #MeToo  movement is wonderful, it is. Well, and all the women 
that are winning these primary elections, or might be in Congress, 
or governors, state houses. That's really exciting. I know yesterday 
we got back and had all this mail from being away for ten days, 
and we haven't really made any political donations this year. We 
got one from Jean Tate, talking about the commissioner, the woman 
that was running for Lane County Commissioner seat. She got most 
votes, but not 50 percent. So, she has to be in a runoff. And so Jean  
said, "Wouldn't it be wonderful if in the fall after November, there 
were four guys and one good woman on Lane County?” We 
thought, we'll send her money for sure.  And the other was Emily’s 
List. And we thought we're— because  I don't like giving to the 
Democratic Party because they call you every five minutes and 
send you stacks, and stacks, and stacks of mail.  Emily’s List  is 
going to support women candidates, so we're going to send them 
money. And the other was Southern Poverty Law Center. And after 
reading this stuff about reading Paul Theroux  what's going on in 
the South, we're going to send them money.  
Raiskin:  And in the Pacific Northwest.  
Anderson:  Huh?  
Raiskin:  And in the Pacific Northwest, the history of white nationalism.  
Anderson:  Oh, well. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  That  Southern Poverty Law  Center  follows.  
Anderson:  Do they?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Anderson:  Oh, I didn't know them.  
Raiskin:  We're in the midst of change and you've lived in Eugene a long 
time, and you've done a lot of work, both in lesbian community 
and in the general community. I'm wondering if you have any  
thoughts or advice or comments to a young person who might be 
watching this video?  
Anderson:  That's hard and easy. I guess it would be to follow their heart, and 
to trust other women, and to work hard, and to be open. Oh, and to 
give back. Do good work. Find somebody to love.  
Raiskin:  Find an Evelyn.  
Anderson:  Find an Evelyn. You'll be a lot happier. Get married, and get a dog.  
Raiskin:  Thank you very much.  
Anderson:  You're welcome.  
Long:  Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  