 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Carol Dennis on August 23, 2018 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender, and Sexuality Studies. Carol, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Dennis:  I enthusiastically agree and give my approval.   
Long:  Thank you very much. That's great. Why don't we just start with 
some basic questions. Can you tell us when and where you were 
born, where you grew up and something about your early 
background?  
Dennis:  Yeah. I was born in Cherry Point, North Carolina, which was on the 
Marine Corps base. My dad was in the Marines as a fighter pilot, 
spent most of his time, I think, in the Philippines or that part of 
World War II. I was there until I was one. The family folklore is that 
I almost didn't make it out of there, that it was— I was born in 
October  1952, and there was a winter storm and the woman who 
was— Because it was cold and there was storm coming on, my crib 
was put by the fireplace. There was a tornado or something and the 
bricks of the fireplace came down. There was a woman who was 
taking care of me and she snatched me out of the crib just as the 
chimney fell on it or something. That's the lore. So every day above 
ground past the age of one has been a gift, I guess.  So we left 
there— I don't remember, but I'm told I was about one.  My dad got 
re-stationed, or whatever the language is in the military, to 
Homestead, Florida. So I grew up in and around Miami. By the 
time I was about three, we moved into the house that I grew up in 
North Miami Beach. It was a middle-class neighborhood, primarily 
Jewish. My mother was Jewish, my father was Protestant. So even 
before I started feeling the “I'm different than everyone else 
because of my gender identity and my sexual orientation,” even 
before I started feeling that, I felt the— To some people in the 
neighborhood, I wasn't Jewish enough, and to other people in the  
neighborhood, I was just too Jewish. So it was an interesting 
growing up. We weren't raised in any particular religion. We went 
to temple on the High Holidays as an excuse to stay out of school. 
But in North Miami Beach, in that neighborhood, you didn't want 
to go to school on the High Holidays anyway, because there was 
nobody there.  I heard the sound of Judaism on the High Holidays. 
There were like four Gentile families in my neighborhood and they 
were all wanting to make sure that we'd learned about Christ. So I 
went to a Christian Church, every now and then I went to a 
something else church, I went to a something else  church. Mom  
and Dad  both said, "Choose your own." The most interesting thing 
about going to the churches was having to figure out what to wear 
because you needed to be in a dress and you needed to have a little 
something on your head because the men don't  wear hats, but the 
women do. I'm thinking about it now, remembering that those and 
school were the really hardest times for me to figure out my own 
self because I grew up a boy but had the body of a girl. I was one of 
only like two girls in the whole neighborhood, or at least in my 
younger years in the block that I grew up on.  Then as that 
expanded to the five block neighborhood where you kind of 
wander and smoked dope with everybody, there were maybe two 
others. So I grew up identifying as a boy, being attracted to the 
girls. So that's the other part of the in-betweenness that I grew up 
with.  
Raiskin:  How old were you when you first felt attracted to girls?   
Dennis:  I say around five. But mostly I say around five because I don't 
really have many memories before the age of five and I don't really 
have clear memories then either. I just remember that I always had 
to wear shorts under my dress or skirt because otherwise I just felt 
naked. It's like, "Why do people do that? Why do you run around 
in your underwear with just this “whoooh”  that could show— that 
could expose you?" So I always had to do that. Also, from as early 
back as I can remember, so I say five or six, because it's as early 
back as first grade, it was really hard for me to have girl friends  
because I always needed to turn it into something more. I always 
needed to get a kiss out of it or there was just— there was a lot of 
sexual energy in my life. Some of that could be that there was a lot 
of sexual tension between my parents. My father was a sex addict.  I 
think one of the reasons why he wasn't close to me and my two 
sisters was he didn't know how to do that without being 
inappropriate. So he stayed away from us. Very close relationship 
with our brother. But during my whole childhood, Dad  had lots of 
affairs. We all knew it and he sometimes brought them home, or 
they were sitting out in the car waiting for their date as Dad  would 
come in and get something and announce to primarily our mother 
that he was going out. There were these secret phone  calls. So there 
was a lot of sexual tension in the house. Somewhere along the line, 
I have come to maybe a theory that that's why every relationship 
that I tried to create had sexual tension. Now with the boys, that 
was fine because they loved playing, show me yours, I'll show you 
mine. I remember being out in a tent in our backyard with all the  
boys in the neighborhood, while there were four of us, four boys 
and me, and we were playing strip poker and I always lost.  But you 
see, we were playing with invisible cards. So I always agreed to 
lose because it was the only way I knew how to get attention. I was 
obsessed with trying to see theirs because I wanted to know what I 
was missing. So I didn't have language for all of that. Called myself 
a lesbian from, I  don't know, probably the age of about fifteen  
when I finally heard that language. But I'm so grateful today for the 
younger generation who's actually given me a better vocabulary, 
that I was gender queer all that time. I hope that doesn't disqualify 
me from this interview. So my childhood was a lot about loneliness. 
There was a time when I was in fifth grade where a couple of girls 
came up to me and said, "If you don't learn to act and walk like a 
girl, you're never going to get a boyfriend." So I started my 
research. All right, what do girls do? How do girls walk? What do 
girls do when they're together? I had no clue.  
 So Susie Rosenstein— Rosenberg, Susie, was someone I really liked. 
I went up to her and I asked her, "What do girls do?" She didn't 
really quite know what that question meant. I'm not sure I really 
did either. But I was with her after school one day when her mom 
came up to pick her up after school and she told her mom what I 
asked. I think her mom must have thought I meant, what do girls 
do sexually? Because she pulled Susie away from me and said that, 
"You're not to spend any time with her." So I lost that friend. But at 
the same time, that mom in junior high school, so like two or three 
years later, ran into— was walking down the hall in junior high  
school and I was talking to one of my teacher mentors who of 
course was the gym teacher and also taught math— Oh no, social 
studies or something like that.  But I was talking to her, I don't 
remember her name. I can see her. She was not very tall, dark, short 
hair, looked a bit like you. Short, dark hair, slight muscular. She 
and I were talking and Mrs Rosenberg came up and the teacher 
said, "Oh, do you know Carol?" She said, "Oh yes, I know Carol 
very well. I remember when she asked my daughter what girls do," 
because I think that she had gotten back to the tomboy girls do. I 
think that she had cleaned up her sense of what the question was. I 
was mortified and I thought  very quickly. I said, "No, I was asking, 
"What do sixth grade girls do?" Because  I was in fifth grade and 
Susie was in sixth grade. "I was asking what do sixth grade girls 
do?" To this day, this question, this moment in the hallway does 
this to me. The other outing that happened, eighth grade, I loved 
math. I was good at math. I loved  math.  And in eighth grade, I 
walked into my math class, first day of math class, and the teacher, 
I think her name was Mrs Burger, but I'm not sure, started the class 
by saying, "Now, I know you girls don't like math, but we'll make 
sure you keep up." My thought was, "Oh fuck, she's going to know 
I'm a boy if I like math." So I didn't do math after that. I stopped 
being good at math because she told me that if I was good at math 
then you'd know that I felt like a boy inside and I had to keep that 
secret. That was a big one too. That was a really big one. So my 
childhood was all about keeping a secret and trying to get a look at 
a penis because I didn't know what they were supposed to look  
like. So, starting in high school, there were lots of blowjobs because 
it was the only way I could see what that was like. But not a lot of 
girl friends because I would always muck it up with getting a 
crush.  
Raiskin:  You said you got some language for being a lesbian when you were 
fifteen  or so, where did that language come from?  
Dennis:  All right, let's see. Maybe it was sixteen. So I have this sister who's 
seven years older than me and she's been my hero and my mentor 
always. She left home when I was about eleven, so that makes her 
eighteen, to move to New York for fame and fortune in theater. 
That's who I followed up to New York. I think her first roommates 
were gay men. So I don't know that I got the vocabulary around 
lesbian, but I certainly got the vocabulary around gay. And also my 
mother was just absolutely amazing. Now, I have seen a photo of 
my mother when she was about twenty-three  years old living in 
L.A. Now, my mom didn't marry until she was probably close to 
thirty. She was lying about her age. Jumping ahead, when my dad 
died in 1980, my mom aged six years, because she lied and said she 
was three years younger than him, but she was actually three years 
older.  
 So there was this picture of my mom at about twenty-three  in Los 
Angeles in a backyard. She was the femme  of the group. I just don't 
think she knew it. But everybody else in the group, it was all 
women and they were all dykes, and she was just this prim and  
proper little femme  and they were all— I wonder if my mom 
understood me so well and accepted me so well because she knew.  
Raiskin:  How did she come by that circle of friends?  
Dennis:  I don't have a clue and we never really talked about it. It might've 
been around movies and stuff. Family lore, and I think that it's true, 
when my mom was in L.A.— We had family in L.A. My mom was 
born and raised in New York City. So moving to Miami was very 
comfortable because it's the Southern most borough of New York. 
But we had lots of family in L.A. I think one of my mom's first jobs 
in L.A was as an editor at Disney. Then for a while she worked at 
Max Factor. So she was kind of with artsy kind of people. So I don't 
really know. But when the movie Boys in the Band  came out, my 
mom took me. Then when we left I said, "I need to get that book." 
So we went— or at least this is the way I remember it. Then my 
mom didn't drive, so we would have had to have taken a taxi or a 
bus to the movie. So she knew something about it and she maybe 
also didn't want to go to the movie by herself because my mom also 
didn't have very many friends.  
 My mom also started losing her hearing when I was about two. So 
by the time I was a teenager, I was her ears. So we bonded. The 
way I remember it, before we got home from seeing The Boys in the 
Band, I had the script and I slept with it under my pillow. Even 
though it is  the most painful story of our history, it was finally 
people who felt like I felt, their outsides finally matched my 
insides. I was so grateful for that. I was also suicidal from the age of  
eleven. That didn't lift until I was about twenty-eight  years old  and 
watched my father dying of cancer. When I realized I didn't mean 
die, I just meant feel better. I didn't mean die. I'd never seen die 
before. But from the age of eleven, anything that went wrong, my 
thought was, I don't belong here. I just don't belong here. There's an 
analogy that I've come up with in my adult years that life is a game 
of musical chairs. In musical chairs, there's one more person 
circling than there are chairs.  So the music plays, the music plays 
and when the music stops, everybody runs for a chair and the 
person who doesn't get a chair is out. Well, my life was a constant 
game of musical chairs. I always lost, but God never let me sit the 
next round out. I just had to keep playing and playing and playing 
and there was never a place. So that expanded into, “I must be 
what's wrong with the world.”  So whether it was race riots or wars 
or my parents' divorce or any of that stuff, I was what's wrong? 
And if I were gone, the world would come back into balance. So 
suicide was always my first option. I often had a plan, but I never— 
I did try once at the age of— I guess I was seventeen  or eighteen. I 
was on tour with West Side Story  in the role of Anybodys, the 
tomboy, of course. It was a dream role for me. Now, that was 
another movie that gave  me something, because I went to see the 
movie West Side Story  and I saw Anybodys. Now, if you ask most 
people about the movie West Side Story, they'll name Tony, they'll 
name Bernardo, they'll name Maria, maybe they'll name Anita. But  
nobody except us names Anybodys because she was us. So I'm 
touring Florida, it's a Florida tour.   
Raiskin:  With what company?  
Dennis:  I went to the University of South Florida. When I graduated high 
school, I went to the University of South Florida studying theater. 
In the summer between my freshman and sophomore years, they 
put together a program that was a combination of— It was actually 
a producer from Texas. The stars of the show were from New York 
and Equity. They came down and they cast the incidental and the 
chorus parts  at the University of South Florida Theater 
Department. Then we toured and I got cast as Anybodys. I went 
into the auditions as Anybody. In other words, I went in as me and 
not as who I would have gone into an audition with femm ing it up 
or doing whatever I could. As a matter of fact, I went into the 
audition and I played— I didn't even say anything about wanting 
the role of Anybodys and the director said, "Would you like to play 
Anybodys?" And I said, "Yes. Thank you."  
 So I'm on tour and I'm falling in love with one of the costars, with 
one of my college buddies who was also in the show. I'm going to 
say her name and you probably will know it because she went on 
to be Elayne Boosler. So I fell in love with Elayne Boosler. We've 
remained friends, not close friends, but every now and then we'll 
email each other in these later years. Now, she doesn't know this 
part of the story. So if she ever watches this, “Elayne, I'm sorry I 
didn't share this with you.” So we're in the hotel and I'm in Elayne's 
room afterwards and I'm feeling the sexual tension and wanting to 
tell her that I've got a crush on her or that I'm in love with her or  
whatever. She's fallen in love with one of the musicians, which 
she— one of the trumpet players, I think, who was also I think from 
New York, but I don't remember. Anyway, I'm trying to get it out 
and she says, "Are you a fucking lesbian?"  
 As Elayne Boosler would do. "Are you a fucking lesbian?" I said, 
"Yes." She was very kind and she said, "Well, I'm not that way." It 
was late at night and that morning I left, it was— I don't know, 
maybe 5:00 in the morning. I left the hotel. We were in Fort 
Lauderdale. We were on the beach. There was a Highway One or 
whatever it's called in Miami. I ran across the highway and I was 
bee-lining it for the ocean. That's where I was going to do it, I was 
going to throw myself in the ocean. I see this guy down the beach, I 
don't know, maybe quarter mile. He looks at me and he jumps in 
his car and he's  heading my way. I figure I want to die, I don't want 
to get raped. So I start running from him and he catches me and 
says, "I saw what you were about to do. I knew I had to stop you." 
We end up talking for several hours until the sunrises. Then of 
course he propositions me and it's like, "Fuck you."  
 But I don't know if I would've done it because I was also having the 
thought, "These are the only clean pants I have. Do I really know 
want to ruin them?" You know what goes through your mind when 
you're bee-lining it to the ocean to take your life. I don't know. But 
that was the only attempt that I made. Later when I was on tour 
with Godspell— because by then I moved— So, I left college  after 
two and a half years. I never got any kind of a degree. I have a high  
school diploma, that's the highest I ever got, plus about two and a 
half years of college. I left college to go to New York and I moved 
to New York with my best friend Darryl and his boyfriend, Glenn. 
Darryl now, after world traveling for forty  years, him not me, he 
now lives in Eugene and we have been able to rekindle our 
friendship and do theater together again, which is just magical. 
Glenn died of AIDS many, many years ago. So Darryl and I moved 
to New York together after he graduated from college.  Within eight 
months, I got cast in a touring company of Godspell. I was on the 
road with Godspell  and I did that on and off for about two  and a 
half years. In St. Louis— combination of my drinking and my 
drugging and my suicidal stuff— the hotel in St. Louis is where I 
had a nervous breakdown. My body was kind of falling apart 
because I wasn't taking care of myself. I was drinking a lot and 
shoving a lot of cocaine up my nose. My ankles were kind of giving 
out, my knees were kind of giving out. There were several shows 
that I had to just— I had to not do it. The understudies would go 
on. There were times at that point that— the only times that I could 
breathe was— so I was in the hotel room in St. Louis, I pushed the 
hotel bed near the window and I would stand on the bed in the 
window sill, inside the window, but imagining that I was outside 
the window and I could tumble down anytime I wanted to.  That's 
where I could breathe because I figured I could at least be in control 
of that. Shortly after that, I had to leave the show. I went back to 
New York. My sister took care of me for about a year. I think I 
might have stopped drinking for a little while, but I don't think I  
stopped smoking pot and I don't think I stopped doing cocaine, but 
I don't really remember that year. About two years later, I started 
my life in Alcoholics Anonymous. I've been clean and sober now 
for over forty  years. That's where I grew up. So do I need to jump 
back anywhere or shall I just continue on from where I am? 
Childhood stories. What do  you need?  
Raiskin:  I think keep going. Where are you now? So now you're in?  
Dennis:  I'm in New York. Yeah. I do want to go back because there's a really 
important— I have a brother, and maybe this actually ties in really 
nicely. My brother died about two years ago at the age of sixty-five. 
He outlived our dad by two years and he wasn't sure he would. 
Curtis and I were very close friends. He was my protector in high 
school. He was also a heroin addict. When we were in high school, 
he would come home late at night and be so wound up. He would 
wake me up and we'd go out, sit on the porch and just talk. He 
tried to kick at home a couple of times and I just— I have visceral 
memories of holding him while he threw up and sweated and all of 
that stuff. Anyway, the end of my drinking and using, I was 
shoving cocaine up my nose a lot, bleeding it out, shoving it back 
in. I looked at myself in the mirror and I saw my brother.  That's 
when I recognized that I was an addict. That's what got me to stop, 
is that I saw my brother, I saw his life in me. So I stopped the 
cocaine cold turkey, which meant that I was— Then I had two 
weeks of being drunk and that was my bottom. That was when I 
realized that I had to stop. My last drunk was around Halloween at  
the J.I. Rodale Theater in Allentown, Pennsylvania. My friend 
David Rodale, who's from the Rodale family, the Prevention 
Magazine, family and stuff, he was one of the first to die of AIDS. I 
think he's probably counted in the first 100. But before he died, he 
opened a theater in honor of his grandfather who loved theater. 
They were of course millionaires, so he could do that, the J.I. 
Rodale Theater. I was there for the opening show or something like 
that and a whole bunch of us went.  We were at the Rodale 
Farmhouse and the show. The first night that I was there, which 
was probably the night before Halloween, I got so drunk. The next 
morning, I had the worst hangover I'd ever had. I couldn't even put 
clothes on without it hurting. I couldn't think of having anything in 
my stomach except mashed potatoes. I was so sick and I promised 
myself that that night at the next— after the show of the next party 
I wouldn't have anything to drink. At the party, by the time I'd 
remembered my promise, I'd had three beers and I was off and 
running. The next morning, I woke up clear as a bell and I knew 
that when I got home I was going to call AA. I don't even know 
where I heard of AA. Maybe sitting on the subways late at night, 
you don't make eye contact with people because they'll follow you 
home, so you read the ads, and maybe there was an ad. Anyway, so 
I woke up the next morning and everybody was already in the 
kitchen.  I went in there and they said, "Oh, you were so funny last 
night." They laughed, and I laughed. I thought I was very 
embarrassing the night before. We were talking about what are we 
going to do when we get back to the city and people were saying,  
"Oh, I'm going to do this, I'm going to do that." I said, "Well, I'm 
going to call AA." They laughed, so I laughed and I got home and I 
called AA.  
Raiskin:  Can I ask you, what do you think attracted you to theater?  
Dennis:  That's a really good question. The first answer is my sister, because 
she was doing theater in junior high and high school. It's really 
hard for me to say, but I can tell you that after I got sober, it was 
really hard for me to do theater again, because the adrenaline high 
is so wonderful. I realized as I hit my bottom that the only place I 
felt loved and accepted was not while I was doing a play, but the 
curtain call at the end. So that might inform “the why” I wanted to.  
Raiskin:  I was wondering when you were talking about Boys in a Band, the 
idea that queer people act, and not on stage, in life.  
Dennis:  Yeah. Oh! Well, I think that's why I was good at it. That might've 
been why I was good at it. But I think it was more— maybe it was 
about that game of musical chairs, is that if I was cast in a part, that 
character had a seat. I didn't, but that character did. But it was a lot 
about ego, a lot about— at least I had an identity. I could say, "Oh, 
I'm an actor." What's nice is that in the years that I lived in New 
York, that's how I supported myself. I wasn't the waitress who's 
waiting for the acting job. All of my jobs, if I wasn't on stage, I was 
running props or running sound or doing wardrobe or working in 
the box office or selling concessions or ushering. It was all about 
theater. Maybe a lot of it, too, is that being queer was the norm in  
theater. Not so much for the women, but for the men. Since I 
identified as a man anyway— I mean, I really— So backtracking a 
little bit more, when I was eighteen  I was considering a sex change 
operation.  But part of my thought process was that it's probably 
easier to go through life as a man trapped inside a woman's body 
than as a five foot, two inch man. I would always be a boy. I also 
knew that if I were to transition, I would be a gay man. And that's a 
sad life. So I stayed like this. I have to say I'm glad I did because as 
I got older, especially reaching menopause and not having to be 
reminded every month that I'm in the wrong body, I have really 
smoothed out my gender confusion to whatever this is. This is who 
I am. I no longer have the desire to change the outside to match the 
inside. I personally am glad I waited long enough, but I also don't 
know what it's like to live on the really far ends of the gender 
spectrum. I've always been somewhere in the middle.  
Raiskin:  Why did you think being a gay man, a transition gay man, would 
be a sad life, as opposed to other— 
Dennis:  Because of Boys in the Band. So, I mean— 
Long:  But why? I'm confused about that because if you had transitioned 
to be a gay— to be male, then you would have been straight, 
because you were attracted to women.  
Dennis:  No, see, sexual orientation and gender identity are absolutely 
separate. As a matter of fact, if you really look at the statistics, there 
are huge percentages of people who transition who then become—  
their gender identity follows them, or not gender identity— their 
sexual orientation follows.  
Raiskin:  But you were attracted to girls as a child. Did that change?  
Dennis:  It would have.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Dennis:  I think that it  would have. And there are a lot of female to male 
transgender folks who then become gay men, and there are a lot of 
male to female transgender folks, so transgender women who then 
become lesbians. Now, there's a part of me that wonders if that 
were to have happened, would it have been that being a gay man 
would have— So, intimacy with other men would have been the 
closest I could get to the correct genitalia. I wonder that.  But yeah, 
so sexual orientation and gender, it oftentimes that when one 
transitions, the orientation follows you. So you're still queer and 
now you're queer in this new body. It's fascinating.  
Long:  Can I ask?  
Dennis:  Yeah.  
Long:  When you made that decision to call  A.A., how old were you?  
Dennis:  I was twenty-five, yeah, yeah. And another thing that helped me, 
so there was this nervous breakdown that I had and then there was 
the— so there was a time I guess prior to the breakdown, must 
have been. Time doesn't make any sense to me back then because  
life was just chaotic. The tour that I was on with Godspell, there was 
a time that we sat down in Washington, D.C. for a little while, and 
one of the guys in the play, Jimmy, who also died of AIDS. Half the 
men in my Godspell  company had died of AIDS. He grew up in 
Washington and his minister or priest, Presbyterian, is it a minister 
or a priest? I don't really know. So his minister was a gay man, a 
celibate gay man. And I was talking to Jimmy about,  you know, at 
twenty-three, I had come to— Oh, this is an important story. At 
twenty-three, I was doing children's theater in the Shenandoah 
Valley and I had never seen winter turned to spring, and I had this 
religious epiphany, which combined with a woman in the company 
that I was falling in love  with, you know, me and my love— 
Relationships lasted two months at the most.  She was Christian. I 
was trying to convince her to be a lesbian with me. She was trying 
to convince me to be a Christian with her. She won. So I became a 
Christian. I identified as a Christian, but I didn't know how to 
reconcile being a Christian and being gay. So Jimmy took me to a 
lunch with his minister and the minister gave me this. He said to 
me, "Carol, God has given you a special way to love. If you abuse 
it, it's a sin. If you don't, it's not." And that's when I realized that I 
was going to the bars, getting drunk, picking people up just to feel 
whole and then throwing them away. And when I stopped doing 
that, that was the linchpin that led me to realize I was a drunk and 
an addict, and that I was using women to fill the emptiness in me. 
And when I stopped doing that, that's when I got sober.   
 And for about the first three years, I kind of did the same thing in 
A.A. I was trying to find somebody to fill me up. My A.A. home 
group in New York City was a lesbian feminist,  separatist A.A. 
group. And yes, I was going to try to stay sober, but I figured if I 
was going to stay clean and sober and I had this big hole in me, I 
had to fill it with someone, so I better fill it with a clean and sober 
woman because then we could stay clean and sober together. And I 
learned that that doesn't really work.  
 There was a woman, Julie, I was in my first year of sobriety and I 
got this big crush on her. I asked her to come over and spend the 
night just to snuggle because I was feeling really lonely and stuff. 
She came over to snuggle, but I had ulterior motives of course, and 
I was a really good seducer. I was a really good seducer. I also 
thought I was God's gift to women because I was really good at 
getting women to orgasm because I couldn't, so it was my job. It 
was their job to do it for me.  Anyway, Julie came over, we're 
spending the night, I'm snuggling, I'm using all my tricks. She just 
won't go there. I don't remember when it was that she said it to me. 
She said, "You know, Carol, sometimes we just need to be held." 
And that just opened up a whole world to me, that I didn't have to 
buy being held with giving somebody an orgasm, whether it was a 
blowjob or pretending I was in love with somebody. I didn't have 
to buy it with sex. I could  just ask to be held. Julie changed my life.  
 But it really took me a very long time to— Still to this day, I have a 
hard time having women friends. I'm in a great marriage with  
Amber. Amber Dennis, Amber Lunch, who is also an important 
part of this community. 
Raiskin:  Is it too fast ask you to tell us about how you knew about  Eugene 
or coming here?  
Dennis:  Oh, no, no. Well, yes, yes because— Okay so I'm three years sober 
in New York City  in a horrible relationship. So Julie changed my 
life, but it still didn't mean that I didn't try to find a woman to fit 
into that hole. And I found a woman named Kathy and she was 
awful. She said to me, "The only thing that'll ever make me leave 
you is if  you have an affair."  
 I'm working on a show in New York called, I'm Getting My Act 
Together and Taking It on the Road. It's a public theater. It's at Circle 
in the square downtown. I'm the assistant stage manager, my sister 
is the production stage manager, and they're taking a company to 
L.A., and they're going to be looking for someone to do the job of 
an assistant stage manager and to understudy two of the women in 
the show. I could do that. So I auditioned for that and that's how I 
got from New York to L.A. In that transition from New York to LA, 
right around here is when my dad died. So it's 1980.  
 High school, I'm the baby in the family. My high school graduation, 
my father who has had all these affairs— at my high school 
graduation, we're standing outside the high school, he comes up to 
me and he says, "You're the baby, you graduated high school, my 
job is done, I'm divorcing your mother and leaving."   
 And he does. He stays in Miami for a little while, but the whole 
divorce proceeding, which was awful because my brother and I 
were still under age, enough to get a child support. So we were 
brought in to the divorce hearings and we were told that we 
wouldn't be asked about Dad's affairs, but of course we were. It 
was horrible.  Anyway, so the whole divorce goes way in my mom's 
favor. She gets the house, she's going to get child support, she's 
going to get alimony. My dad doesn't want to do any of that, so he 
remarries a woman named Jeannie and  then they vanish. So for 
nine years we don't know where he is, whether he's alive or dead 
or anything. And then— oh, this is an amazing— My life is full of 
amazing stories.  My mom discovers— now, this isn't true anymore, 
but it used to be back in the '70s and '80s, that if you had 
somebody's  Social Security number and they were still working, 
you could send a letter to them through Social Security. You just 
have to not seal the letter so that it could be opened and read to 
make sure that it's not manipulative or a threat or something like 
that. You put the letter in an unsealed envelope, you send it to 
Social Security, and they forward it. My mom decided to do that 
after nine years to say, "Your children need a father. You might 
hate me, but you don't hate your children. So here are all their 
addresses."  But she sealed the letter, and she also, in order to make 
my dad comfortable opening it, put my sister Marjorie's, my oldest 
sister's return address on it. So Social Security returned the letter to 
Marjorie who opened it, realized what mom was doing, put in 
photos of now dad's grandchildren. Because my brother— so my  
brother ends up getting sent to prison. That's a whole other story. 
Comes out of jail, marries, becomes the best dad ever, but never 
really stopped drugging. He stopped the heroin, which was great. 
And two years ago died of hepatitis that he got from when he was 
shooting drugs. Anyway, puts in photos of— You know, you're a 
grandfather, your son is doing fine, here's all of us, and sends it, 
and he gets it. He sends us a letter back June 1980, right around 
Father's Day, "I needed to be away from your mother. I'm sorry I 
can't let you know where I am because she’s still trying  to track me 
down." She had forgotten about him by then. Not forgotten, but 
had to let go of all of that.  So we get this letter back saying, "I love 
you, but I can't tell you where I am." And then in September— 
Now, my father is not Jewish, he's Protestant. We get a letter from 
the rabbi in Honolulu. He's the groundskeeper at Temple Bethel or 
whatever it's called, the— I guess he liked Jews. He was the 
groundskeeper in the Temple in Honolulu. We get a letter from the 
rabbi, Rabbi Nodel  saying, "Your father is dying. The doctors give 
him a couple of days. He would love to hear from you before he 
dies. Here's the phone  number."  Within thirty-six hours, my 
brother and sisters and I were at his bedside. Two things saved my 
life there. One, I walked into his hospital room. He was sixty-three  
years old and looked ninety. He was about ninety  pounds. He was 
a five foot 10 inch man, looked a lot like Henry Fonda. My dad 
looked like Henry Fonda. My mom looked like Judy Garland. They 
were oftentimes mistaken for celebrities. When I walked into his 
room, there was a white light on his left shoulder and I knew there  
was a God. I've forgotten, I don't know anymore that there's a God, 
but I remember that I knew in that moment that there was a very 
patient, loving, something waiting for him to go.  And I also, like I 
said earlier, I'd never seen “die” before. All of those years that I 
said I wanted to die. I didn't mean that, I meant start over. I also 
understood at that moment, that three years clean and sober, that 
that's what A.A. lets me do. The steps and the sponsorship, and the 
fellowship lets me wipe the slate clean and start over.  He lives 
another two months. The doctor said our visit just brought him 
back, but it was a horrible two months. I don't think I ever came out 
to my dad. I did tell him that I was an alcoholic because there was a 
meeting.  Of course, there was an A.A. meeting right downstairs in 
the hospital every day at noon so I could get to a meeting, of 
course. And of course that when I called the central office of A.A. in 
Honolulu as soon as we arrived, the person who's answering the 
phone at midnight is a cancer care nurse, of course, and told me 
what to expect when I walked into the room. You know, all of these 
things. I don't think I came out to him. I told him I was an alcoholic 
and he said, "Well, we all carry our own burdens."  Anyway, the 
other part of the story, and I'm veering off a little bit, but you'll get 
me back. When my dad was in the service, when he was a bomber 
pilot, which I think he hated, but— 
Long:  Was that in World War II?  
Dennis:  It was World War II. His tail gunner was an actor named Brian 
Keith, who you may know from TV shows, like Family Affair  and  
from movies like Parent Trap. Became a very famous actor in the 
'70s, '80s. And Brian Keith lived in Hawaii and they became pen 
pals. They became pen pals. They never saw each other, even 
though they were in the same town, but they became pen pals. One 
of the things that we found when we went through my dad's stuff 
was a stack of letters from Brian Keith where he really confided in 
my dad a lot about his marriage.  I sent a letter to Mr. Keith letting 
him know those letters were  destroyed. They will never see— 
nobody’s  going to see  them. Anyway, my brother and I— So all 
four of us flew out there together. Me and my two sisters from New 
York, Curtis from Florida, we all got there. And so Curtis and I had 
to get back sooner than Marjorie and Kathy. So Curtis and I were 
on the same flight back. We were only able to stay a week, and one 
of the things dad said as we relieving is my biggest regret is that I 
never got to introduce you all to Brian Keith because both my 
sisters are in theater and me, and my brother would've loved him.  
So Curtis and I get on the plane, we walked back to our seats and 
who walks onto the plane headed towards first-class is Brian Keith. 
We sent a note up. After the plane takes off, he comes and spends a 
half an hour with us. And Dad  lived long enough to get a letter 
from us saying we met Brian Keith. And Brian Keith was very 
angry at Dad  because here he was spilling his guts about his own 
marriage and his relationships, and he never knew that Dad  had a 
marriage before Jeannie and a whole family before him, before that. 
So he's kind of pissed. But we got to meet him.   
 That's how I get to Los Angeles. Now, in LA, I don't know how to 
work the room as an actor. For about a minute and a half,  I have a 
manager and an agent, but my agent loses her franchise. My 
manager doesn't know what to do with me without— there  was 
another agent who was interested in me, but because I signed with 
this one, he said, "What do I want with you anymore?"  So I started 
becoming an— I worked a lot as a stage manager there. So how do I 
keep this related to relationships and things? Because  I don't want 
to just give my career stuff. Although, I did get to coordinate the 
first fifteen  minutes in the last fifteen  minutes of the '84 Olympics. I 
do want to say that because that was pretty damn special. But I still 
kept trying to fill that hole and I wasn't doing it with drugs or 
alcohol anymore, but I really did love adrenaline and I just  kept 
making sure I got into relationships that were really unhealthy. So 
now I'm at a loss.  
Raiskin:  How did you get to Eugene? 
Dennis:  Yes. There we go. Yes, that's the connection. Thank you. Because 
this is a history about Eugene. Anyway, so I'm in L.A., I stayed in 
LA for ten years. I'm doing a lot of event coordinating and stage 
managing in L.A. Oh, and I'm in gay A.A. in L.A. Now, in gay A.A. 
in L.A., in the ‘80s, at the height of the AIDS epidemic, they were 
announcing memorial services almost every meeting. And it was 
during that time that I shifted, I think a lot of A.A. in that era, in 
probably places like New York, San Francisco, and L.A. shifted 
from the desire to live sober to the goal of dying sober. It's an  
extraordinary shift. I want to stay sober to the end of my life 
because I saw people dying of AIDS who had a spiritual life and 
those who didn't have a spiritual life. And I want to die like the 
ones who have a spiritual life. A.A. is sort of my church. It's not a 
religion. I hope it never becomes a religion. But 100 years from 
now, it's going to be really interesting to see what the dogma has 
turned into.  
 So the grieving was really getting to me. I was in a relationship 
with a woman named Terry. Again, not a very good relationship. 
We were together for six  years. For the first three years, it was 
lovely. And then we hit something, an intimacy that I think scared 
the shit out of her and she became violent, throwing things, violent 
explosions of anger, throwing things at me. I stayed for three  years. 
As a matter of fact, we moved up here together, not knowing 
whether it was the drive by shootings, all the deaths from AIDS or 
was it us? We came up here and learned that it was  us. 
 Anyway, what was happening was that I couldn't cope with the 
grieving anymore and I needed to find someplace to go where I 
could just rest for a little while. I didn't intend to stay. Terry, who's 
the person I was with, her grandmother had a farm up in 
Philomath, and she used to come up here for the summers, to 
spend the summers on the farm. And so she knew it was a 
beautiful area. And we also had kind of heard that Eugene is kind 
of the San Francisco for lesbians. So we heard that there was a 
very—  
Raiskin:  How did you hear that?  
Dennis:  I don't remember. Yeah, I don't remember it. It was just its 
reputation. The original thought when we were going to leave L.A. 
was to go to Grass Valley, California. Terry had a friend who was 
building a house in Grass Valley and the trailer that she and her 
girlfriend had been living in  was now going to be available when 
they moved into the house. So we were going to move into the 
trailer until we found our way. We went up to take a pickup truck 
load of stuff up there and had the most godawful fight with the 
person that was there, whose house it was. And I said, "We can't 
go." And so we said to each other, "Okay, if there was no leg up 
anywhere, if nobody was offering us a place, or a leg up anywhere, 
where would we go?" And we said, "Eugene." I don't really know 
why. I had looked it up on the Chamber of Commerce website. 
There was still the Oregon Repertory Theater was posted, ORT. 
And I thought, "Oh, I could be there." And there was ACE and 
there was— 
Raiskin:  ACE stands for?  
Dennis:  Actors Cabaret, which still exists. And there was The Very Little 
Theatre, but I'm union so I needed a place where I could work more 
professionally. Well, when we got up here and we found out that 
ORT doesn't exist anymore, had folded about two years before that. 
Anyway, we didn't go to Grass Valley, we sold everything we 
owned, we fit in the back of a pickup truck, we drove up here, we 
arrived on February 15, 1990 through a really bad snow storm.  
Here she is, a California gal, I'm a Miami gal, we've got this pickup 
truck. And I remember my dad saying, "Always  drive in the ridges 
of an eighteen-wheeler if you're in a snow storm. I don't know how 
he knew that. He grew up in Florida, too. But so we're coming up 
the coast and we're trying to get across. We couldn't come across. 
One was blocked by a semi jackknife and the other was windy so 
we finally got to Eugene. The first thing we discovered in Eugene 
after about ten months was that it wasn't the drive by shootings in 
LA and it wasn't all the death and dying, it was us. And so Terry 
stayed about another year, we  split up, I kept a little apartment that 
we found, she moved in with some friends in A.A., and then she 
went back to L.A. We've gotten in touch with each other. She wrote 
me about two years later when our friend Jane died of AIDS, and 
she's the only woman  I know, lesbian who I know who died of 
AIDS.  
 So that's what got me to Eugene. The other thing I found, not only 
did ORT no longer exist and that there really was no professional 
theater here, so I didn't know what to do about that, but also our 
impression that there was a really welcoming tight lesbian 
community—that’s not what I found. What I found when I got here 
was that there were lots of very tight lesbian communities and that 
it was really hard to knock on the door of any of them.  I found my 
way to gay A.A. meetings here and that was  nice, but it was also all 
that— it was still a lot of— I was still in pickup mode when I went 
to those meetings. The other thing I found was Shanti, which I  
don't think exists here anymore. And  there was Shanti and there 
was— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe what Shanti was?  
Dennis:  Yeah. Shanti, it was an AIDS activist support organization. And 
there was another one here. Shanti and this other group that was 
called AIDS Alliance of Lane County, that's  what it was called. So 
I've found myself with AIDS Alliance of Lane County and they had 
some support groups for those of us grieving. Shanti and AIDS 
Alliance of Lane County meshed and became HIV Alliance. And so 
what was happening was— so I found that, and I would  go to those 
support groups and— Did I find those before or after?  So here's 
another one of those wonderful stories in my life. I'm jumping back 
just slightly. So the first job I had here was  at "Olan Mills Portrait 
Studio!  We're calling in your neighborhood today only to offer 
you— " I lasted two months. I started getting sick to my stomach 
when I went into work.  
Long:  Was it a photo portrait  studio? 
Dennis:  Yes. Olan Mills is like this national thing where you go in and you 
pay like $9 to get your portrait and to get your photo done. And 
what they do is for $9.99 or whatever it might be now, you come in 
for the shoot and then when you come back, you get two free, 8 by 
10 photos, and they're actually pretty nice. But what they offer you 
are the ones that didn't come out so good so you have to pay for the 
ones that did.  But I got to tell you, there was one time I made a  
phone call, and I hated just barging in on people's lives, but there 
was this one time where the woman said, "I just want to thank you 
because a month before my father passed away, we did this and 
that was the portrait we used at his funeral." So that kind of made it 
all— But anyway, so that lasted about two and a half months. And 
then I got a job in the laundry room at the Hilton Hotel. The 
hardest $3.90 I've ever worked to make. At the end of the year that I 
was there, it was $4.10. Hard work. But anyway, here I am walking 
into the lobby of the Hilton Hotel downtown to turn in or to fill out 
an application or whatever you do.  And there's a guy at the bell 
station, the bell hop, who looks so much like a guy named Bob 
Skerry, who was the company manager on my first company of 
Godspell. And he also worked in the Edgar Lansbury Broadway 
production office that produced Godspell  and other things, and 
that's where I sometimes worked. So this guy looked  just like Bob, 
but I mean Bob Skerry was like a Broadway company manager. He 
ran Lincoln Center Theater for a while and I'm getting close and it 
says Bob. He's dying of AIDS and he wanted someplace beautiful 
to die, and his partner—I will eventually remember his name 
because he's still alive, Bob died.  It's Bob Skerry. It's Bob Skerry, 
who he and I did not like each other when we were doing Godspell  
together. We just did not like each other at all. But if you know the 
movie Longtime Companion, about the all the friends who had a 
house on Long Island and one by one they died. They lived that 
life.  
 Bob and Gary, Gary Gunas, who was also a Broadway producer 
who now lives in London. Bob and Gary were one of the team of 
couples that bought a house in Fire Island and one by one they died 
and it left Bob and Gary as the last owners. They sold the house. 
Gary was now with Don. I mean Bob was now with Don. Donny, 
who's still alive. Gary's also still alive  in London. They sold the 
house. Bob took his share of it. He and Donny— I guess Don 
must've known about how beautiful it was. Bob wanted to die 
someplace beautiful where he could grow roses.  So they came out 
here and took the money from Fire Island and bought two acres in 
Vinita. And I had the pleasure of knowing Bob and becoming 
friends with him for about three years before he finally died. And 
Gary came out and I got to see Gary again. Anyway, so there's Bob 
Skerry. He says, "Put me down as a reference."  And he and I 
worked together there for a year and became friends. When it was 
time for me to start Little Apple Productions, Bob and Gary were 
my mentors. They walked me through how to do it.  
 The reason that I created Little Apple Productions was because  I 
couldn't bust into any of these damn lesbian groups. I was lonely. It 
didn't feel like home, but I didn't want to go back to L.A. I would 
go back to New York like every couple of years and I would sort of, 
"Now, I'm home again." But I'd come back to Eugene and I just— I 
don't know why I stayed, but I stayed.  
Raiskin:  Did you go to any of the social gathering places that we have heard 
about? I think the Riv Room  was closed by the time you came.   
Dennis:  Yes, the Riv  Room was closed.  
Raiskin:  A lot of the social gatherings were closed by the time you came.  
Dennis:  I went to Perry's, but it's a bar and I'm clean and sober. I would try 
to go to some of the Sunday lesbian singles gathering things and it 
just— I don't know how to talk to people.  I know that I don't seem 
like an introvert, but I am. I like rules. I'd rather go to a workshop 
where there's somebody at the front talking and you break out into 
circles and they tell you what to talk about. I don't know how to 
just go to a gathering and talk.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever go to Mother Kali’s? 
Dennis:  Oh, all the time. Yes. And Izzy was also. Izzy— 
Raiskin:  Izzy Harbaugh? 
Dennis:  Yes. Any step I took on a show with any show in town that I 
directed with Little Apple or any of the other theaters that asked 
me to direct, if there was anything that I needed to know that might 
be considered sexist or in any way, Izzy was my person. "Okay, I'm 
doing this. It says, you know, and the script is like this. How do I 
get around that?"  She also sort of just gave me— Izzy and  Peg 
Morton, every time Little Apple Productions had a play, they were 
the first to buy tickets. Anyway, so I thought, okay, how do I create 
family here and how do I break into the lesbian communities? It 
occurred to me, I have something to offer. When I was in L.A., I 
had two friends, the two women that I understudied in the play  
Getting My Act Together. One is, her name is Kay Cole. She was in 
the original production of Chorus Line, was a regular on the Carol 
Burnett show for a  while. She and I became very close friends. And 
Margot Rose, who also did a lot in New York and L.A. They were 
the two women that I understudied in Getting My Act Together. 
After Getting My Act Together  was over, they were in the L.A. 
production of Last Summer at Bluefish Cove. And Kay sent me her 
script, or maybe sent me to Eugene with her script on the goodbye 
party or whatever, said, "Take this." So I had the script Last Summer 
at Bluefish Cove  by Carolyn Chambers.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that play?  
Dennis:  Yes. Last Summer at Bluefish Cove  is a play about a group of women 
who every summer go to Bluefish Cove, which is, it's a fantasy 
place. It's a fictional place, but it's sort of the lesbian equivalent to 
Fire Island. So every summer this group of women go there. And 
sometimes there's a new person, sometimes this person who used 
to be with that person is now with this person, and this person is 
with  this person and what do you do? And it's at the beginning, it's 
set in 1974, so it's the second wave feminism. And so that's going 
on. Lesbianism is going on. There is a straight woman who 
accidentally gets sent there by a realtor because she's in the middle 
of a divorce and wants someplace quiet where she's not going to 
have to deal with men hitting on her. The realtor says go there.  But 
she doesn't know she's in a bevy of lesbians. And Lil, who is the 
sort of the leader of this group, found out two months prior that  
she's got ovarian cancer, and is dying, which is why the play is 
called Last Summer at Bluefish Cove. And it's a powerful, wonderful 
play. It's a well-written play. It's a story about friendship and loss 
and love.  And it's still to this day, probably the only lesbian play 
that has ever reached any kind of success in New York. Late 1970s, 
'78, '79 maybe. The L.A. production  was '82, '84 maybe. Nobody 
will touch it. It's an amazing play, and nobody will touch it. And so 
I wanted to produce Last Summer at Bluefish Cove. As a matter of 
fact, I wanted to direct Last Summer at Bluefish Cove, and I was 
pretty convinced I couldn't talk any of the local theater companies 
into doing it.  I'm not sure I really approached— So Chris and 
Randy were the Leebrick and the Lord of the Lord Leebrick 
Theater, which is now the Oregon Contemporary Theatre. I'm not 
sure I approached them about producing it, but I wanted to direct 
it. So I figured the only way I'm ever going to direct it is to create a 
theater company to direct it. And that's when Little Apple 
Productions was born in 1993. So it was Little Apple Productions 
because I learned to do theater in the Big Apple, and I thought 
Eugene could be the Little Apple. So it was Little Apple 
Productions.  And Little Apple productions was created to produce 
plays by and about women because nobody was doing it. I had 
women playwrights, wonderful, successful— no, not successful. 
Wonderful, accomplished women playwrights from all over the 
country sending me scripts because nobody was doing them. And 
it's interesting. Theater is a male dominated from the top down art, 
but there are probably more artistic directors, or managing  
directors of regional theaters in the country who are women than 
men. But they don't produce these plays either. They're starting to. 
But in 1990s— ‘80s, ‘90's, it wasn't happening. And so I wanted to 
create this thing called Little Apple Productions dedicated to 
producing plays by and about women. And our first production 
would be Last Summer at Bluefish Cove. And I went to Bob Skerry, 
and I said, "Can you help me? I need to know how to do this." And 
so we did it the way they do it in New York, for profit, with angels.  
 So I went out looking for investors. And there was this guy— 
what's his name? I can't remember his name. It was a man in the 
gay male community who I made friends with, and I knew he had 
means. He had money. Not a lot of  money, but he had more money 
than most people I knew. And I said, "I want to do this. And I've 
got a budget of $8,500, and I want to raise it from the community. 
Can you start with an investment of $850 so I can say I've got 10  
percent  of it in the bank?"  And it took a little convincing, but he did 
it. He gave me $850. And I raised the $8,500 selling shares at $50 a 
share. And that the agreement was you would get a share of the 
profits back based on the percentage of the whole budget that you 
own, which is  how it works in New York. If you're an investor in 
theater, you get your investment back. If the show is successful and 
more. We raised the $8,500.  My Aunt Lillian in New York was one 
of them. I think she bought one share, but that one share meant 
more to  me than anything because she was a stock market wizard. 
She retired at like eighty, and by the time she was 104 and died, she 
left us, she had a lot of money in the bank. So her endorsement, she  
read the business plan, she read the prospectus, all of that  stuff. Her 
endorsement of just one share was remarkable.  We made the 
$8,500. We did the show, everybody got their money back, plus I 
think it was a 15  percent  profit. So anyway, so we did Last Summer 
at Bluefish Cove, and we did it at the old Lord Leebrick Theater over 
on Charnelton. And we ran for three weekends, Thursday, Friday, 
Saturday, Sunday. The theater seats about 100, and we were setting 
up chairs every night, turning people away. We had about 1,200 
people come through. And it was a huge success,  and Little Apple 
Productions was born.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel you had enough talented actors in Eugene?  
Dennis:  Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yes. And what was very fun is that Storm 
Kennedy played one of the major parts, and she's not a lesbo. And 
her partner in the play was a woman named Deltra Ferguson, who 
is a staple here. And they got such a crush on each other. They 
never consummated. But still twenty  years or thirty  years later, still 
there's this energy between them. It's so sweet.  
Long:  And what year was that? 
Dennis:  So, '93 is when I started. I think it was '94 when it was produced. 
And Bob didn't make it to the opening night. He died just a month 
before. But he was my guide. He's the person who taught me that 
you budget a play to break even at 50  percent  ticket sales. So I had 
to price the tickets so that if we sold only half the house, we'd break 
even.   
 Also all the actors got paid. They didn't get paid a lot, but they got 
paid. And LaRosa  built the set out in her barn when she lived out 
wherever it was she lived out in Lorane. I will try to find those 
photos of the crew that built the set because it's like Marty— so 
many of the women from women’s land  who were now living here. 
It was like it was the lesbian creme de la creme.  
Raiskin:  So you broke into the lesbian community.  
Dennis:  Yeah. By having them build the set. And it was so interesting 
because LaRosa  is this amazing cabinet maker. And I had to keep 
saying to her, "It just has to look like it works. It doesn't have to 
actually work." So we built the whole set over the course of about 
three weeks out in her barn. And Randy and Chris who ran the 
Lord Leebrick Theater, they built the sets in their own theater so it 
took forever.  We were a rental, so we only had three days to get in 
there, build the set  in there, tech the lights, and open the show. And 
we did it. Just like a jigsaw puzzle, we brought the set in piece by 
piece. We had a crew of about ten of the sweetest little butches 
you've ever seen. Brrrms and brrrms. And it was great. Built the set 
in about ten hours. And Robin Riversong, and I mean Cynda. I 
mean it was just this amazing group of women who, some of them 
had done theater before, some of them hadn't. Diane Robson  was 
our lighting designer. Maybe even the set designer. No, she was 
our set  designer. And Robin was the lighting designer. It was just 
amazing. The play takes place in a cabin on the beach. And so we 
had this cabin that was just a breakaway kind of wall, so you could  
see through it and into it, and the beach was all around it. And it 
was just burlap with foam rubber underneath. So that was the sand 
of the beach. I mean, it was amazing. It was absolutely amazing. 
And it was my way in.  
 And what I got from that was that— what I've learned over the 
years is that a lot of people who come to Eugene from other places 
come here to do some kind of spiritual healing. And if your 
spiritual healing resonates with theirs, then it's almost like string 
theory. You're just, swoosh, you're in. But if it doesn't, don't break 
in because I've got work to do. I'm doing this really hard work. So 
what I've discovered is that when you come to Eugene and you 
want to find your Mishpachah  here, your family, it's show what 
you bring. What are you adding? Because we've all gotten taken 
away from way too much. What are you adding? And as soon as I 
showed what I was adding, all these doors opened up. It was 
amazing.  
 And so the next play, I think the very next one was Hannah Free. 
Claudia Allen is a playwright who is in Chicago, and she's been for 
decades now the  resident playwright in one of the main Chicago 
theaters. And she sent me the play Hannah Free  because she 
couldn't get produced anywhere. And we did it. And Hannah Free, 
which later became a movie, not a very good movie, but it became a 
movie.  Hannah Free is the story of two old women. They're in their 
eighties, and they've been lovers for decades. One of them, 
Hannah, has always known that she loved, and I'm not  
remembering the other character's name, always known that there 
was something there. But the other one went the traditional way, 
knew that she'd loved Hannah, but married, had children, that sort 
of thing. But later in life, like in their fifties, I think, they find each 
other, and they make a home together.  Well, now they're in this 
nursing home, and Hannah's love is in a coma. And they're in the 
same nursing home, but they don't have the privilege of being 
together. And the daughter won't let Hannah visit. And so in the 
absence of those visits—I wish I could  remember her character's 
name—her spirit visits Hannah in her room until finally the 
daughter acquiesces and lets them see each other. And in the 
meantime we have these beautiful flashbacks to who they were 
before, and how they got there. It's a beautiful play. But just like 
Last Summer at Bluefish Cove, it doesn't get produced. And it's a 
fucking shame.  So we produced, and we did it beautifully. And 
again, we had full houses. And then a fun play called Clue in the 
Old Birdbath, which we did at Tsunami Books. We were the very 
first performance at Tsunami Books. So it's probably '98 then, 
maybe, something like that. And Clue in the Old Birdbath  is a 
playwright in Portland who sent us her musical. And it's a feminist 
satire of the Nancy Drew stories. Clue in the Old Birdbath. And of 
course Nancy's a big old homo. And it's wonderful, and it's music, 
and so we did it at Tsunami Books. And again— well, actually, we 
didn't sell out.  So one of the things that happened with Little Apple 
Productions is that we— And so there was Bluefish Cove, Hannah 
Free, Clue in the Old Birdbath, Transfigurations, and then also a play  
called Buddha's Aunt. So what happened during the seven years 
that we existed was that it was in that time that women in the 
lesbian community started having babies. And we stopped  having 
audiences. We still had money in the bank. I still had people 
stopping me on the streets saying, "I'm so glad you're doing what 
you're doing. I can't come." Still wanting to buy stock.  Oh, I think I 
skipped that part. Let me backtrack. So after Bluefish Cove, and if I 
already told you this, let me know, and I'll come back. After Bluefish 
Cove, we were at the closing night party, and a woman named Amy 
Wade was there and her husband David. And Amy loved the play, 
and she dragged David. Now in that whole time, the 1,200 people, 
there were maybe three men that came.  And one of the men and his 
wife left, and demanded their money back. Because nobody told 
them it was going to be a lesbian play. And nobody would want to 
sit next to her husband. They were so  offended because nobody 
wanted to— it was a full house. We were setting up chairs. 
Somebody had to sit next to him. And it's like it wasn't a lesbian 
play. It's a play about a group of friends who were losing a friend 
to cancer, and they just happened to be lesbians.  
 Anyway, so David comes, and he's a lawyer. We're at the closing 
night party, and David Wade comes up to me and says, "You know 
Carol, I love the way you did this." And I think Amy was an 
investor. "I love the way you did this, gathering up all the 
investors, but do you know you broke the law?" I said, "No." He 
said, "Well, you're not going to be in trouble unless anybody 
complains. And since all the investors got their money back plus,  
nobody's going to complain." But in the state of Oregon, if you have 
more than ten investors in a company, you have to register to sell 
stock.  So David's a lawyer, he knows. And so Amy said, "And since 
you brought it up, David, you have to help her." He said, "I'm not a 
securities attorney, I don't know anything about it." Well, there's 
this thing called  a U-7 which is for small Oregon-only stock 
offerings. And I did it. It took me a year of filling out the forms, and 
going to David to ask what does this question mean. Because he 
wasn't permitted to advise me on how to fill the format because 
he's not a securities attorney. But he could tell me what the legalese 
meant.  And at the Secretary of State's office or whatever the 
security and exchange office in Salem is called, there was this 
amazing man named Michael Horowitz. And he was the person 
who had to approve my U-7. And he worked with me for six 
months. So I'd send in a draft. He said, "No, I can't accept this. But 
see on question number seven, if you were to say something like—" 
And he was from New York. And he had this really awful nasal 
thing going on. "So if you want to say something like, that would 
kind of maybe answer the question if you were to do that."  And he 
worked with me until finally it was done and approved. We are, to 
this day I believe, the smallest stock offering in the entire history of 
Oregon. We were able to come out of escrow at $9,500. By the time 
we finish selling stock, we had $11,200 in the bank. And we ran on 
that money and ticket sales, plus a couple of  small $1,000 grants 
from the Lane Arts Council. We ran on that and ticket sales for 
seven years.   
 And when we were done, we still had a couple of hundred dollars 
in the bank. And every year I had to have a shareholders meeting. 
There were about sixty-fivde people in the community. My sisters 
bought shares, my Aunt Lillian bought shares, people in the 
community bought shares. That book that I gave you has all the 
names of people who bought shares, and it was very clear. And 
David, the attorney, and Michael,  up in Salem was very clear. He 
said, "You have to be sure you tell everybody that they're never 
going to see their money again. Because if somebody invests and 
thinks that you've promised them a profit, or a cut of the door, or 
anything like that, you could get in trouble." So it was clear to 
everybody that you won't see your money again, but you'll see 
good theater.  And when it finally got approved, David Wade sent 
me a letter. Oh no, actually I went into his office to tell him it was 
approved, and he took me around to all of the partners in his office 
introducing me as the newest Eugene securities and exchange 
attorney because I'd done it all on my own with just him and 
Michael. And so Little Apple was a for profit, publicly held C Corp.  
Long:  And Carol, all during this time when you were producing these 
plays, how did you support yourself?  
Dennis:  Oh, Sundance Natural Foods became my home. And Gavin 
McComas, who is the owner there, gave me all the time I needed to 
do the theater. So yeah. So I went from the basement of the Hilton. 
Here's another one of the stories. So there was Bob Skerry, of 
course, in the lobby of the Hilton, and helped me get the job in the  
basement of the Hilton. And Bob's new boyfriend, Donnie, worked 
at Sundance. And Don knew that they were hiring stockers at 
Sundance. Bob told me, I applied, Don said, "Put me down as a 
reference." I interviewed and I got the grocery stocker job. And I 
was there for seven years, the same seven years.  
 Gavin is a wonderful guy. He's much more interested in the life 
story that you can bring to his store than the expertise that you can 
bring. He wants people who can share their stories and tell stories. 
And I think I really got the job because he was saying, "What are 
some of the things that you do when you're not at work?" And at 
that time I was writing a novella. I didn't know it was going to be a 
novella until I finished it, and it was only 100 pages. I was writing a 
book, a novel. And he said, "Well, what's what kind of novel?" And 
I kind of looked away, and I said, "Lesbian erotica." And I think I 
got the job because he thought I was interesting.  
Long:  Did you ever publish that?  
Dennis:  No, but I got a nibble from Firebrands. Yeah, I got a nibble from 
them, but that's as far as it got. So yeah, so that's how I was able 
to— Oh, and the other thing that made me able to run Little Apple 
is that, and another great story, I lived in a tiny little duplex at the 
end of Thirtieth. So you know where the Albertsons is at Thirtieth  
and Hilyard. Well there's a little residential Thirtieth  street that 
dead ends before the Amazon Creek, and then Hilyard and 
Amazon.   
 And there used to be— there was a duplex, a house that Robin lives 
in, Robin [Frakes 01:32:02] lives in, and then another duplex. And 
then this quarter acre field that had two little houses on it. Well, I 
was living in one of those duplexes because it was what I could 
afford. And the guy that lived in this house opened a pizza parlor 
in Sunriver. And he wanted somebody to be in the house so that it 
wouldn't  be vacant. And he said, "Is $250 a month too much?" And 
I said, "No, that's great."  
 So I was there for about six years. And so the reason I was able to 
run Little Apple Productions was that I had the job at Sundance 
with a boss that let me take the time off. And I never really took 
time off, but he let me know that I could take time off when the 
show was running. And a place that was affordable. And this guy, 
he apologized profusely when he needed to raise it to $275, and 
then $300. That was the reason that I could run Little Apple 
Productions.  Because I had affordable housing, which is why I am 
so committed to fighting for affordable housing because it makes 
all the difference in the world. And not just affordable housing for 
folks who are very low income. But affordable housing for those of 
us in the middle class. It makes such a difference in quality of life. 
So that's how I was able to do that.  
 So, so the other thing that Little Apple Productions did, and I don't 
remember the exact years, but it was probably '96, '97, '98, '99, 
maybe those summers, was the Eugene Women in Theater Festival. 
So every summer. And people from all over the country would  
apply to come here, and they would travel here. And the Eugene 
Women in Theater Festival was to give women  a place to perform. 
And so we had dancers, we had musicians, we had spoken word. 
Some of it was local, some of it was from all over the country.  And 
again it was in those seven years when lesbians were settling down 
and having babies. So, from Last Summer  at Bluefish Cove  where we 
couldn't set up enough chairs to the final Eugene Women in 
Theater Festival where I had a hard time finding eighty  people to 
come through the door. That was 1993 to 2000. So Little Apple 
Productions folded.  
Raiskin:  Because people are making their lesbian families and staying home 
more. And you met your partner when?  
Dennis:  Well, Amber and I met at Sundance, but we weren't sweeties until 
2004. But we met in '93 I think. She was the grocery buyer at 
Sundance, and I was the  mid-shift stocker, meaning I worked from 
nine to five. That's the mid shift. So she was my boss. And we 
crushed on each other pretty hard. But it wasn't until 2004 that we 
were both single at the same time. And my mom had just died. 
And we'd been friends and confidants the whole time. And Amber 
found out that my mom died, and called, and said, "I hear you're 
single. I was going to invite you over for a cheap pizza and a bad 
movie, but I heard your mom died, so if you need to talk, let me 
know."  
 And I called her and we talked. And we talked for hours. And then 
we started hanging out more. And I at first thought we were just  
hanging out like we used to do. Just because we always snuggled 
and flirted and stuff. She thought we were dating. I didn't think we 
were dating for two weeks or three weeks or so after.  But with the 
demise of Little Apple Productions, I was now known as a good 
director. And so Lord Leebrick would bring me into direct shows, 
and I guess that's where I would do it. And then I was also then 
called upon to do things like direct Soromundi's twentieth  
anniversary— 
Raiskin:  Lesbian Chorus.  
Dennis:  Yeah, Soromundi Lesbian Chorus of Eugene. So they were having 
their twentieth  anniversary celebration. I think that was in 2004, 
something like that. So they wanted it directed. So we created a 
story arc, that sort of thing. So lots of community organizations 
would then call me and say, "We want an event for our fundraiser." 
So I would do stuff like that and stayed in theater.  
Raiskin:  So thinking a little bit about your being here during Oregon politics 
around gays. Some of it is the measures and also the marriage 
rollercoaster. I'm wondering how that affected you.  
Dennis:  So I think the other thing that happened during the 90s, and the 
other thing that affected Little Apple Productions, what I saw 
during that time was that our priority became to fight the OCA.  
Raiskin:  The Oregon Citizens Alliance.   
Dennis:  Yeah. The Oregon citizens Alliance, which was putting all these 
horrible ballot measures up. And it was in  the same period of time 
that Little Apple folded that we lost— So there was the Lavender 
Network. So we lost the Lavender Network, which was a queer 
news periodical, a monthly. We lost the LGBT Helpline. There was 
so many things that had been put in place  as social supports and 
social outreach and networking and stuff, that all the money got 
siphoned off to an organization like Basic Rights Oregon and 
organizations that were fighting those ballot measures, that these 
other things died.  
 Now I look at Little Apple Productions, and one of the things— I 
mean I see that the lesbian community was having babies and 
settling down. I also see that I, as a producer, was unable to 
convince the general population in Eugene that women's theater is 
not just for women, it's about women, and everybody's got a 
woman in their lives. So I wasn't able to cross over into the more 
mainstream audience. And so my audience, my niche audience, 
became lesbians and feminists. And that was where I fell down.  
 The other thing that I learned, because Amber, my spouse, got her 
master's in Arts Administration, and one of the things she did was 
sort of the history of arts and social movements. And in her 
research she also found that, with Little Apple Productions, my 
focus was to give artists a place to show their work as the priority. 
And I did that, but I didn't grow the audience. So it was primarily 
for the artists, and not for the audience. So it was not breaking out  
into the general population to show that women's theater and 
lesbian stories can be everybody's story. It was the settling down 
and having babies, and it was the siphoning off money around the 
OCA stuff.  
Raiskin:  And I think historically too, when I think about Fun Home. And I 
think it's going to be in Eugene this year.  
Dennis: Yeah. OCT is doing it. Oregon Contemporary— 
Raiskin:  It's interesting that that has been able to catch audience.  
Long:  So what's Fun Home? 
Dennis:  Yes. Yes. And so that's— I think that we can now say that from Jane 
Chambers’ Last Summer at Bluefish Cove  to Fun Home— 
Raiskin:  By Alison Bechdel.  
Dennis:  —we finally have another lesbian story in the mainstream theater. 
Fun Home, so it's Alison— 
Raiskin:  Alison Bechdel.  
Dennis:  —Bechdel who has done “Dykes to Watch Out For,” is that her, 
comic strip for decades. Finally caught the attention of somebody 
who wanted to turn it into a Broadway musical. And it is her story 
about coming out, and also the story of her father's suicide around 
not being able to accept the fact that he was gay. And it's powerful. 
I haven't seen it, but the score, I mean, all you got to do is listen to  
the score. And it's finally, finally. So yeah. So in the ‘90s, we lost a 
lot. 
Raiskin:  And then what about the marriage roller coaster. That's another 
political effect  in the community.  
Dennis: The tough one on that was that the OCA finally found the right 
word—marriage—that would convert even our allies into people to 
vote against us. Because they hooked into, well— but marriage is 
this man and woman thing. We'll give you domestic partnership. 
We'll give you civil something, civil unions, or something. But 
marriage really is between a man and a woman. So they found the 
word that broke our hearts. But it's— Broke our hearts, you know? 
But it's interesting because it was that word then that got us to 
where we are today. And also going back a little ways to the AIDS 
epidemic. That taught us how to protest. I was one of the people 
back during the height of the AIDS protests and the screaming and 
yelling about why aren't you doing anything about this? And we 
knew the answer. It's because it's just a bunch of faggots dying. So 
who cares? We want them out anyway, I was one of the voices 
about ACT UP  to say, please stop. Stop throwing blood on people. 
Stop making waves. Stop being violent. Stop breaking windows. 
Stop doing that because you're just wrecking the effort. But now 
looking back on it, ACT UP  is the only way we got there. It's the 
only way we got there.  But again, lesbians were left out. Even 
though in big cities it's the lesbians who were staffing the call  
centers and delivering the meals. Twenty-five friends, I lost twenty-
five friends. I said that to—  
So I was working on a job. So I took my theater stuff and I started 
working with research organizations that wanted to do multimedia 
stuff and I would help them create heart stories about the research 
they were doing. And one of the projects I was doing, it was 
actually a food handler's safety online program and we were 
translating it into Vietnamese. And so we found a couple of people 
in the  community who speak Vietnamese, one of them who did the 
voiceover and the other one who was following along in the script 
to make sure that it didn't get misunderstood.  And she and I had a 
private moment and we were talking about Vietnam and she saw 
the tears in my eyes and she said, "It really affects you." I said, 
"Yeah, what was done in my name just really affects me." And so 
she got that. And then we were talking more about my life. And I 
had told her that I lost twenty-five friends to AIDS and she said, 
"That's like a war zone." And it just really brought the, that if 
somebody from a war zone says that losing twenty-five friends to 
AIDS is like living in a war zone, it let me allow the impact of it to 
really sink in.  
 So when I talk about the AIDS epidemic and then when Jane died, 
she was a heroin addict. I met her in AA and she probably caught it 
then, but it was in honor of her. So she probably, I think she died in 
1994, maybe. In honor of her, I wrote a pamphlet called Lesbian 
Safer Sex: If We Wait Until We Have To, We Will Have Waited Too  
Long. And I wrote it, I was on the speakers Bureau at HIV Alliance 
or whatever it was called at that time. This was before their 
speakers Bureau, you had to be HIV positive. This was their 
speakers Bureau could be people who were affected by the loss 
from AIDS. And so I wrote that pamphlet and they were 
distributing it and the CDC picked it up and I was very proud of 
that. And I won something called the Ribbon of Hope award from 
the family AIDS foundation for that.  And that was in honor of Jane, 
that we understood that even though she didn't catch, she didn't 
contract HIV from lesbian sex, she could pass it. And so she and 
her partner were always safe and I just, it was like, let's get it out 
there. I am so tired of losing people. Let's not do that. Let's not 
become another dispendable population because they won't do 
anything if it's just us lezzies.  
Raiskin:  Did you work with Carol Queen on safe sex performances or 
anything like that?  
Dennis:  No, uh-uh [negative], no. What I did do was that I put together a 
little hour long presentation called “The Politics of Women and 
HIV.” And it was about how women were being blamed for the 
spread of HIV all over the world instead of the men who refuse to 
use condoms. And so I knew Lizzie Reis and I think she might've 
been the first professor to invite me in, but for about four years, and 
this is what I did with the Speakers Bureau, for about four years, I 
gave that presentation at almost every women's studies 101 class.   
 And that was my way of giving back. And I loved doing that. And 
then the Speakers Bureau became, you had to be HIV positive to be 
it. And so I didn't have the foundation for going in anymore. And 
also the research would— kept changing and I didn't have the  time 
to keep up with the research, so. But, but it was really fascinating 
to— in some of these classes there were guys that were like part of 
ROTC  and stuff like that.  And there was one time I was talking 
about the fact that in Southeast Asia we went in and in order to 
service the servicemen, we created, these brothels. The military 
created these brothels and local girls, usually girls, would service 
our servicemen. And then when we left, that was their only income. 
That was their only livelihood. And this  one guy said, we never did 
that. And I said, yeah, just look it up, look it up. And then the girls 
and the women are blamed for the spread of HIV in places like 
Thailand, which is where the servicemen would go. And so that 
was really important to me. And all of that was done in Jane's 
honor. Yeah. So.  
Long:  So what is your life like today? Are you retired? Are you still doing 
theater?  
Dennis:  I am. So after Little Apple closed, like I said, I became known as a 
good director. And so lots of community organizations would 
come and ask me to, for CALC  for a couple of years, a community 
reading of the Martin Luther King, Jr. speech, the anti Vietnam  war 
speech, community readings, bringing, bringing members of the 
community together to read portions of the speech out loud. I did  
that a couple of times.  Oh, and Transfigurations  was probably the 
last thing that we did. And that brings us to today as well. So 
twenty  years ago, Eliza Roaring Springs and Deltra Ferguson 
wrote, they were commissioned to write a play about what it's like 
to be transgender in Oregon.  So they went around the state and 
they interviewed folks and they came back and they wrote this play 
that I then help them shape and reshape, and then we did staged 
readings of it. We did five staged readings of it between 1998 and 
2000 at organizations and stuff. And there was the Northwest 
Coalition for Malicious Harassment was having their regional 
conference here, its Northwest coalition, so their Northwest 
conference out at Lane Community College. And I proposed doing 
that, doing the reading of the play there. And it was interesting, 
they originally had us in a plenary session, am I saying that right? 
Where everybody's together. They originally had it there and then 
they got push  back.  So the Northwest Coalition Against Malicious 
Harassment is about identifying racial discrimination and 
discrimination in general. And when some of their members 
realized that the plenary sort of keynote was going to be about 
trans folks, they said no. And we became a workshop that 
competed with like five other workshops and we were at the blue 
door, at Lane. And we had a full house, so there were about a 
hundred people there. And we did a reading of that. And there was 
a guy there from, is it Wyoming where Matthew Shepard was 
killed? He was from that area and was there during the whole 
thing about Matthew Shepard. And he said about this play that if  
people had seen  this play where he lived before Matthew Shepard 
was killed, Matthew Shepard might still be alive today. And we 
had people saying that about Last Summer at Bluefish Cove as well, 
that if people had seen that play before voting.  
 So, Transfigurations. So after I left Sundance, I spent a year at 
Grizzly's Granola, great place to work. It's a new owner now, but 
making real granola. Anyway, I spent a year there and then I got 
hired on at the Oregon Center for Applied Science. It's now just 
called the ORCAS. And  it's now just, I think they've sold it actually. 
And it was two researchers from Oregon Research Institute who 
got tired of seeing all their research  only turn into magazine articles 
and wanted their findings to be applied. They created the Oregon 
Center for Applied Science where they would take their research on 
sexuality, smoking cessation, healthy living, that sort of stuff, and 
make online interactive programs. And because of my reputation 
from a Little Apple, I got the notice of a guy named  Will Dolittle, 
who is a videographer in town and had been here forever, who did 
most of their video shoots.  And so he brought me in to start 
assistant directing and stuff like that. And then eventually I got 
hired on at ORCAS as a production manager and a writer. So  we 
would take their research, like on working with a family member 
with dementia. And there's just so much you can do with written 
word or even spoken word. But what if you created a scene where 
the family member with dementia is having a hard time and you 
show the right way to redirect or to calm them down and stuff like 
that. So I started doing that for ORCAS and so I was there for ten  
years and then when I left there, I went to Western Oregon 
University, the research institute at Western Oregon University and 
did the same thing there. And then all of that time, in those fifteen  
years I would get asked to direct at the Lord Leebrick  Theater. And 
they always, it was great. They always asked me to direct the real 
meaty ones.  
 I'm going to put a lozenge in my mouth since I'm getting dry. So, I 
continued to direct maybe one or two plays a year. Is just going to 
be horrible? And then, so fortunately I spent five years at Western 
Oregon University, which means I've invested, so I get a little 
pension from there.  So the idea was to retire on January 1, 2017 and 
about five years ago I started having this idea of a theater company 
called Minority Voices Theater, which would kind of extend the 
scope of Little Apple beyond just doing plays by and about women, 
to doing  plays by and about marginalized communities. People 
who don't get to see themselves on our local stages, whether it's 
based on race, ethnicity, culture, gender, sexual orientation, the 
local theater companies just don't produce those plays because they 
don't think there's an audience. Fun Home, there's an audience and 
OCT is doing it. I'm very glad.  
 So about five years ago I had that idea and my friend Stanley 
Coleman, who's kind of new in town, he was very new in town five 
years ago. I said to him, "If I  ever do this, do you want to, would 
you do it with me?" And he said, "yes." He's an African American 
actor, director, musician. So,  but the plan was on January 1, 2017, I  
would retire, I would do nothing for about six months. And then 
let Minority Voices kind of grow organically as we just put the 
pieces together and see where it wants to go. But after the 2016 
election, I could not wait. Not only were people being ignored here 
on our local stages, they were now being attacked on our streets. 
And so right after the election, I emailed Stan and I said, "Let's do it 
now." And he said, "Okay." I got on the Secretary of State's website 
and registered the name “Minority Voices Theater.” 
 And I said, "Stan, you've been talking to me about this play called 
Having Our Say, the Delany sisters first 100 years, how would you 
like to direct it as our first production?" And he said, "Yes." He said, 
"That would be wonderful." So the Delany sisters are two people 
who lived from, I think they were born around 1896 and they died, 
one of them was 104 when she died, the other 107. We meet them in 
this play at 101 and 103 and they tell their life story while they're 
making a celebratory dinner for their late father's birthday and you 
are the interviewer in their parlor that's come to talk to them about 
their biography, because the book is based on their biography.  
 And they tell you their life story while they're making this dinner 
and their life story is the history of the United States all through the 
twentieth  century as seen through the eyes of two educated middle 
class black women. There's a thing called, there's a thing on 
YouTube that's, it's a Ted Talk, The Danger of the One Story, and 
what it is is that if we only know this one story about this group, 
we think everybody is that way. This play tells the other story.  
They, they are, it's all of the discrimination, all of the N word and 
all of the being afraid that they're going to be lynched and it's a 
perspective from two women who were given the foundation from 
their father: You don't need to put up with any of this shit.  
 One of them became the first woman dentist in New York and the 
other one, the first black high school teacher in New York City. 
And she got that job by applying by mail and then when she got a 
letter saying we love your your resume, we would love to meet 
you. She was advised and she was friends with some of the most 
well-known  black activists at the time. She was advised by one of 
them, tell them you can't come. So she wrote a letter back saying, 
"I'm afraid I can't be there, but I would love the job." They hired her 
and didn't know she was black until she walked in. They needed 
her, they kept her and she stayed a teacher. So anyway, so Minority 
Voices Theater was born. The first thing we did was The Delany 
Sisters.  
 The next thing we did was the play Vita and Virginia. And Vita and 
Virginia  is a play by Eileen Atkins and it's a play that she created 
and starred in, in London and New York, taken from the twenty-
year correspondence between Vita Sackville-West  and Virginia 
Woolf and their love affair. And we do staged readings only so that 
we can reach into the community and pull people in who maybe 
don't think that they're actors, but we can teach them how to do a 
staged reading. And the reason for that is that the excuse that a lot 
of the theater companies use for not being able to do plays that  
have people of color in them is that we don't have people of color 
who are actors locally. So the idea is we reach out into the 
community, we teach them how to do that, and three to five years 
from now we have a more diverse bench and there's no more 
excuse.  Plus we get those stories out. That's what we did with The 
Delany Sisters. We used Charmaine Coleman and Arbrella  Luvert 
who are two pillars in the African American  community here. And 
what a boom for us. What a boon for us to be able to have them in 
our first production. With Vita and Virginia, we used two actors. 
Sharon Schless played Vito Sackville-West and Donella Alston, 
Donella Elizabeth Alston who is a local actor and she's African 
American, played Virginia Woolf. So there's another way to do this. 
It's called nontraditional casting and it's to give people of color who 
are already actors, opportunities to do parts that they've never 
done before and to tell that  story.  
 And then we did Now I Am Your Neighbor, which is a play that was 
locally created from local interviews about what it's like to be an 
immigrant living in Lane County. And we used immigrants to 
come in and we interviewed immigrants and then only one  person 
in the cast was telling part of their own story. But the others were 
again, they'd never been on stage before. Most of them, they just, I 
teach them how to project, how to create a character, how to take 
direction, the arc of a whole story. And they were wonderful. And 
it's going to happen again. And this September and I'm so excited.   
 And then the arc back to twenty  years ago with Transfigurations. So 
there's an organization in town called Trans*Ponder  and it is a trans 
founded and led organization  that advocates for the rights and 
services for trans folks. And that's the other thing about Minority 
Voices Theater is that we will always partner with a local 
organization that advocates for the minority or marginalized group 
that's being represented in  that play. We will always partner with 
them and share the proceeds. In our first year we were able to give 
away about $6,000. So, into our second year I wanted to do 
Transfigurations  and I went to Trans*Ponder. So, back in 2017 I went 
to Trans*Ponder  and I said, I want to do this and I want to do it as a 
fundraiser and an in partnership because you can help promote it 
and help me cast it. Twenty  years ago we couldn't cast it with 
people who identified as trans. It wasn't safe for them to be on that 
stage. And for some of the people whose stories were in the play, 
they had a hard time getting the courage to even come. This year 
we did it with almost all people who identified as trans or were 
somewhere on the non-binary trans spectrum and we filled up the 
house and it was so well received. So I worked with the folks at 
Trans*Ponder  because it is twenty  years old and some of the 
vocabularies changed and the stories are twenty  years old. So we 
decided between the folks at Trans*Ponder, the playwrights and 
me, we decided not to rewrite it.  
 The only thing we did was that twenty  years ago, transgender was 
used, I don't know even what part of speech it is, as an adjective? It 
was oftentimes said transgendered. So this person is  
transgendered. And what was explained to me is that, that sounds 
like it happened to you rather than embracing. So we eliminated 
the “ed” throughout the play and intersex instead of intersexed, we 
eliminated those “ed's.” But other than that we didn't rewrite 
anything and the playwrights were thrilled to come and see it. 
Deltra who lives in Ashland now, she came up for it. So we did the 
play, which is a one-act and twenty years ago we'd do the one-act, 
we'd have an intermission and then we'd do a talk back, which 
Lizzie Reis contributed an  awful lot to the curriculum of the talk 
back. This time since it's twenty  years old, Oblio  at Trans*Ponder 
came up with the idea, let's do the play, have an intermission and 
let's do the world premiere of The Trans Monologues, based on sort 
of the same premise as The Vagina Monologues. So we did that. And 
so it brought the stories up to date. So we had four of those. So 
three of them came from the people that were actors, readers in the 
play, and they each told some of their own story in the second act. 
And then, maybe they were even four. And then the final 
monologue, there was this wonderful sweet young person named 
Oliver, who when I put out the call for people to come and— My 
ears just popped. I can actually hear myself now. When I put out 
the call for people to want to be in the play, Oliver showed up. 
Now Oliver is thirteen  and there's no part in the play for Oliver. 
But I told him, how about you write a monologue for the second 
act? And so he started doing that and we  were getting closer and 
closer and I'm not hearing anything from Oliver about the 
monologue and I need to vet it, I want to work with him, I want to.  
So I go to Oliver's house and he and his mom are there and we sit 
down and Oliver opens up his laptop and says, "You know—" I 
said, "Well, just read me what you've got." And he said, "No, it's 
really not done. I really just kind of just kind of started writing, you 
know." And his mom started and then his mom said, "And I would 
sort of help him remember what was next and you know, that sort 
of thing. So it's really just random thoughts."  And that's when I 
thought, that's the monologue, is that it's Oliver's monologue with 
his mom standing behind him saying what she was going through 
at the time. And that's what closed the show, was the monologue 
between Oliver saying, "You know, I didn't know what it was. I 
didn't know who to tell. I didn't think I should be here." Oliver 
gave me so much hope, I was Oliver. And Oliver has a way, and 
then mom's saying, "You know, I went through it with my oldest 
daughter, so it wasn't foreign to me, but I still didn't see it in 
Oliver." And then the monologue ends with the two of them 
hugging.  So, that's how I'm going to spend my retirement. My 
theory about retirement is that pre-retirement, you help other 
people fulfill their dreams. And in retirement you fulfill your own. 
And I promised myself when I survived my childhood and didn't 
end up killing myself, I promised myself as an adult that when I 
got big enough, my skin got thick enough, and my shoulders got 
broad enough, I would reach back and try to make the world safer 
for folks like me. And so I did that with eight years on the board of 
the Lane Education Service District. I spoke out for kids like me 
and I'm doing that now on the advisory council for the Community  
Health Centers of Lane County. I'm on the advisory board there 
and I have brought to the front that we're now, I think the 
Community Health Centers was already on this track, but it's now 
a priority to make sure that their physicians are trained to work 
with people who are transgender.  
Raiskin:  I know that you, your work does this, but I'm wondering if you 
would like to say something directly to a young person who might 
watch this interview about wisdom that you gathered from your 
life. 
Dennis:  So, I guess I want to tell a story. So when I was probably in my late 
twenties I'm guessing, maybe early thirties, maybe mid-thirties, I 
don't know. I was in therapy and I'm trying to remember even 
where I lived, I might've already been in Eugene, so I don't know 
when it was. I was working with a therapist and she asked me to 
close my eyes and visualize a field and visualize me as a child 
across the field and go to her and give her a hug. And I said, I can't 
because if I get near her I'm going to beat the crap  out of her for 
what she did to me. So the rest of my time from then till now has 
been to learn to embrace her. And I have. And people like Oliver 
show me that she wasn't broken, the world was, that she wasn't 
sinful, the world had, the world was. There was nothing, absolutely 
nothing wrong with her. It took me a long time to embrace her. I'm 
glad I have. Because I no longer want to kill myself.  That was a 
long journey. That was a long journey past when I was twenty-
eight  years old, and saw that white light  on my father's shoulder  
and realized that when I thought die, I didn't mean die. I meant 
start over. That was a very long journey from then to embracing 
that little girl. My mother, over our piano in our house in Miami, 
there's a print of a Renoir and it's a child in a sort of, in a white kind 
of ermine kind of robe, very fancy, obviously a royal of some kind 
or very wealthy, pageboy kind of haircut. And it's a copy of a 
Renoir. And so it's a little, this little, this little boy or this little girl, 
mom put it there because she thought it reminded her of me. And it 
was this little girl that was up on top of the piano, over the piano all 
my life. And when mom sold that house and moved out, there 
were some things that I wanted and I wanted that because she got 
it because it reminded her of me. I only found out within the last 
few years that it's a boy. So all this time, that little girl, and that's 
the little girl that I visualized in the field. I would sit in my bed and 
meditate on that portrait, wanting to hug her. And then I found 
out, she says as androg, as androgynous as I am and she's still in 
the prominent place in my house, always will be. So that's what I 
would say is that it's the world who is sinful, not us. And sinful, I 
don't mean in like a religious sense, but I guess in the, I think the, 
whether it's the Hebrew or the Aramaic word for sin actually 
means miss the mark.  The world just kind of misses the mark. And 
I am so glad that I have lived long enough to get it, that this is the 
body I'm in and I don't want to make any judgements about people 
who make other decisions. But I'm glad I lived long enough to be in 
this body and embrace it. And to see marriage and I got married, I 
got married five times to the same person. Because first we did our  
own ceremony, with 180 friends before it was, and it was lovely. 
Then we got domestic partnered, then we got, we did our name 
change cause the domestic partnership didn't do a name change. So 
Amber and I chose a new family name. I am now Carol, I was born 
Carol Denise Horn and she was born, I don't know whether she 
wants me to reveal her birth name, but she's Amber Latitia Lunch, 
here.  And so what we did was we wanted to create a new family. 
So we took our middle names and so I am now, she is now Amber 
Lee and I am Carol Lee. And we took my Denise and turned it into 
Dennis and that's our last name. So we got, so then we had to go to 
the courts and pay $500 to have it changed legally. And then we got 
married and then, oh— and before getting married, married we put 
the title of the house in both our names. So that's, we got married 
five times. So, I'm glad I lived long enough to see that. And I have 
to live long enough to see us get through the mess we're in now. I 
have to hang onto the hope that the mess we're in now is the final 
death throes of the kind of bigotry that this country was born into.  
 The more rights we get as marginalized communities, whether it's 
gender or sexual orientation or culture, or race, or ethnicity, the 
more we get, the louder the dominant  culture needs to scream 
because they're going to lose their power. I want to live long 
enough to know that we've got to the other side of it without losing 
it all. And if we're not going to get to the other side of it without 
losing it all, if we indeed lose it all, I want the history books to 
show that I was part of the resistance. That's going to, that's got to 
be the legacy, so.   
Long:  Thank you very much. Carol. Appreciate that.  
Dennis:  Do you need some water?  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  