 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries' Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Catherine Harris on August 22, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries' Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality studies.  
 Catherine, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project, and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
 
Harris:  Yes, I do.  
Long:  Thank you very much. Why don't we just start with a basic 
question; can you please tell us where and when you were born, 
where you grew up, and something about your early background?  
Harris:  Okay. Well, I was born in Omaha, Nebraska, but I don't have any 
memory of that, in December of 1947. My earliest memories, my 
family, my mother and father, moved to southern California. And 
so, my earliest memories are in Inglewood of southern California. 
And, let's see— both  my parents were college educated, which was 
unusual, but neither one did a college educated job. My little 
brother was born, he's four years younger than I am, and he had 
asthma, and my dad had been raised in Albany, Oregon, and 
wanted to be a farmer again. So, we moved up to the Antelope 
Valley, which is in the corner of Los Angeles County, where he had 
a chicken ranch, and we lived out in the country.  
 And so, I had to take a school bus to school, and I was less than 
thrilled about that life actually. I was more social, and would have 
enjoyed being around more children than I was able to, since I went 
on the school bus. It had to be arranged to get together with other 
kids, but— 
Raiskin:  How old were you when you moved to Antelope  Valley? 
Harris:  Well, I was in,  probably, the second grade, I think. There I benefited 
greatly from the wonderful free education that was available in  
California in those days. Really great teachers in high school, and 
then went on to— I spent one year at the junior college there in  
Antelope Valley, and then I went on to Berkeley. And, for $100 a 
quarter, and great experiences there. I particularly enjoyed going to 
political rallies there every day with, Noam Chomsky was there at 
the time, Michael Lerner was there, Ernest Becker.  
Raiskin: What was the year that you started there?  
Harris:  I started there in '66, and should have graduated in '69, although I 
didn't. I got a great education, but I didn't complete my 
requirements. And I moved around from major to major. I really 
couldn't quite find anywhere—and so, I ended up in history, which 
actually suits me quite well, but they had a requirement for a thesis, 
and I just wasn't prepared. My interests were too broad, and it was 
too big a school, really, at that point. I didn't get the individual 
attention I would have needed to pull that off. So, that's too bad. 
I'm sorry about that, but I am grateful for what an interesting 
education it was, when an interesting time to be there. Of course, it 
was the Vietnam War years, and the early beginnings of feminism, 
or the second wave, or as I experienced it at my age, there may 
have been earlier than that, but belonging to a consciousness 
raising group with other women.  
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit about that?  
Harris:  Well, gosh, I was young then, I was probably only, I don't know, 
maybe twenty, nineteen, twenty. I was just at awe, actually, of the  
other women. I have to say that, I felt a lot like I had been raised in 
the sticks, and to come to Berkeley, and women who are from 
intellectual Jewish families and leftist families, I was in awe, but 
whatever, I stuck in there, but I don't remember a lot of those, 
except I remember women in the group dealing with wanting to 
leave a marriage, or dealing with infidelity within a marriage, or 
how they felt about the other women who were in involved in that. 
I'm not aware that anyone identified as a lesbian at that point.  
Raiskin:  Were there any women studies classes at Berkeley yet?  
Harris:  I don't think so. I'm not sure. If there were, they were just 
beginning. And I remember going to the placement center and the 
counselor saying to me, "Well, if you were a man, we have all these 
job opportunities, but because you're a woman, we don't." So, I had 
a very hard time, and maybe this has continued throughout my life, 
of figuring out where I would fit in. I would say that's pretty 
descriptive of me.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember if the Berkeley Women's Health Collective was 
there yet?  
Harris:  I think it was maybe just beginning, or maybe began a few years, 
because I hung around Berkeley then, after I was through with 
school for a few years. And, yes, it began— I don't remember 
exactly what year it began, but probably most of the exciting stuff 
started to happen after I was out of school, and that might be true 
of that, our consciousness raising group too.   
Long:  Did you participate in any of the protests against the Vietnam War? 
Harris:  Yes. 
Long:  What was that like?  
Harris:  Well, sometimes it was exciting and invigorating when you were 
marching up a street in  San Francisco and looked down the hill and 
saw oceans of people there, and sometimes it was very scary, 
because, of course, the police violence. And, I was there during 
People's Park, and got swept up in the mass arrest. And, I just have 
to look back and laugh on it, because I really didn't have much 
political consciousness, even though I was going to political events 
all the time, and, in fact, I studied a lot of political science. That was 
one of the areas that I was moving around in before I ended up in  
history, because there were some wonderful teachers of political 
theory there that really interested me a lot. Philosophy, political 
theory were very much interests of mine. But nonetheless, it was 
like, "Wait a minute, I didn't mean— can I go home, sir?"  "No, 
you're—" 
Long:  So, you were actually arrested.  
Harris:  I was actually arrested, yeah. They entrapped a bunch of us in 
downtown Berkeley, and we were carted off to Santa Rita County 
Jail, I think is what it was, and held overnight. And, of course, men  
had a harder time than we women did, but nonetheless, it was not 
fun, and it was— and I certainly did not go to a lot of protests 
where I knew that the male leadership was looking more for  
confrontation. I forget, there was something called days of rage, I 
think, and going to the draft induction center, and— I was careful, 
but I was very interested, and I would go to peaceful protests that I 
had reason to think would be peaceful.  
Raiskin:  Did you have connection with the Haight-Ashbury, Summer of 
Love? You're there right at that time.  
Harris:  Not really. I was a little young for that, and still having to go home 
in the summer, so I wasn't there for that. And, I think I'm not too 
sorry about that, because that got to be a pretty ugly scene.  
Raiskin:  Did your parents know you were arrested?  
Harris:  Yes. Yeah. Right. I remember telling my dad about it, and being 
scared to tell him about it, but he had gone to Berkeley also, and 
whatever, he didn't give me a real hard time about it. And 
somebody's wealthy liberal parents bailed us all out, and that's how 
that went.  
Long:  Do you still have a record then?  
Harris:  No, because they ended up throwing it out. I couldn't go home that 
summer and get a job or something, and I did need to get a job in 
the summer times, and I worked sometimes when I was in school, 
too. I had a job at the Berkeley Sewing Machine Company. I was 
the button hole  lady. And I got that through the placement center at 
UC, and that was a very happy, long, low wage— 
Long:  Do you remember how much you were paid per hour?   
Harris:  Oh, gosh. Oh, it might have been a $1 and a quarter. It was 
definitely a low wage, but they were wonderful, warm people, and 
it was fun being involved in just the Berkeley town in addition to 
the school.  
Raiskin:  And so, after that, did you come to Eugene from there?  
Harris:  No, I stayed in San Francisco for a while, and— I forgot to write 
down. I remember that I spent a little time on a fishing boat. I was 
always— as I said, I didn't quite have a sense, very well, of where I 
fit in, and that was exciting and fun, and got me— it was 
invigorating to be out on the ocean every day. But after that— 
Raiskin:  What did you do on the fishing boat?  
Harris:  I was called a puller, and I pulled in the salmon, and whacked them 
over the head, and cut their bellies open, and dumped their guts, 
and threw them in the hole. After that, I got a job as a school bus 
driver in San Francisco. I knew some friends of mine, and that's 
where I first met known lesbians, and just started to really admire 
these women. I admired their independence, and courage, and 
adventurous spirit. That was— 
Raiskin:  Do you remember any of the things they were doing that you 
thought were admirable?  
Harris:  I don't, particularly then, but there was just an energy about them 
that I really liked. And in a way, when I look back, I realize, an 
early feeling I have is that, I always really loved women. I still, I  
really love women. Now, that doesn't mean I love every woman, 
and it doesn't mean I don't enjoy a lot of men, but there's no 
question that I sense something about women and their talents and 
their proclivities that I really love a lot. And I often will say, "I don't 
want to not be able to flirt with women. I mean, I don't think men 
should only have that opportunity." And I really admire, 
something that touches me very deeply is occasionally I run into 
something in writing, or perhaps in person, of a man who 
expresses that same kind of feeling, and I always feel really good 
about that. I think, "That man knows. He understands that there's 
something very special about women."  
Raiskin:  Was there anything you were reading at the time that supported 
those feelings, or encouraged that acceptance?  
Harris:  Yeah, well, everyone was reading the Golden Notebook, although I 
can't say that book quite ever grabbed me a lot. I'm trying to think 
when I read Simone de Beauvoir, and— those are things I can— 
Later, I was involved in a lot of reading groups in Eugene, 
particularly at Mother Kali's bookstore, which I always considered 
to have been the feminist-lesbian bookstore. But it's funny, because 
a lot of people think of Peralandra, and, of course, I'm totally proud 
and happy to claim that we were— well, everyone who worked 
there, pretty much, was a feminist, but still, I always honored  
Mother Kali's, that was who Mother Kali's was.  
Raiskin:  Well, let's back up to when you came to Eugene, what brought you 
here, and then—  
Harris:  There was the school bus driving, a couple of seasons of driving the 
school bus, and feeling like there was this back-to-the-land 
movement, and I love the woods and forests and mountains, I did a 
fair amount of backpacking when I was living in Northern 
California. There was a sense that people in Oregon really cared 
about the environment, and that was where struggles to maintain it 
were going to be happening, and a certain feeling of like, "Wouldn't 
it be fun to be on a commune?" So that's what drew me here. And, I 
lived in a household in Berkeley that was fairly communal, and I 
had some experiences here in Oregon too, although I never did 
exactly quite that experience of living out in a country commune. 
And, they were pretty male dominated there. This was before the 
southern Oregon women had started, and I was wise enough to 
sense that I wouldn't probably  get along really well in that 
environment.  
Long:  So what year did you come up to Eugene then?  
Harris:  I came up in '75, I think. And then I met a young man who was 
getting out of the Coast Guard, and he wanted to go to Mexico, and 
that sounded like a great idea, and I had, really, older, wiser people 
who supported that idea. And so, I went off to Mexico for a while, 
and had a wonderful experience there. I didn't stay with him too 
long, but anyway, went had some really good experiences in 
Mexico. That was politicizing, too, and also being in Guatemala at 
that time. That was probably— it was '75. Seventy-six, maybe, after 
an earthquake, a serious earthquake happened in Guatemala. And  
seeing the banks with the machine gun national guard there that 
was really like, "Whoa." And also just feeling myself as a single, 
independent woman, I realized, "This is not part of this culture." If I 
want to live more as a more independent woman, I'm fortunate to 
be living in the United States, because that wouldn't happen easily 
here.  
 I think I was actually in a little village in Lake Atitlan when a 
helicopter landed, and they were nosing out who was there. Later 
on, the main political work in my life was getting involved with the 
Central American Solidarity Movement. That  was more toward the 
transitioning out of my lesbian community, not leaving them 
behind, but moving more in that direction. Then I could look back 
on some of those experiences I had in Mexico and Guatemala, and 
realize that they were politicizing.  
Raiskin:  And how long were you in Mexico?  
Harris:  I was there about three months traveling around independently. It 
was a wonderful experience, and some scary experiences too, 
especially in Guatemala, being— of course, I was wearing pants, 
and being in a small village in Guatemala, and having children 
throw stones at me, and call me, "Gringo, gringo." And I would say, 
"I'm a gringa. I'm a gringa." That was another experience of really 
coming up against the gender politics. Then I needed to move to 
Oregon, because I needed to, or I was going to be able to avail 
myself of some unemployment insurance if I couldn't go back to 
my job at the school bus company. They actually had laid me off.  
And so, I left thinking I would go to a new life, but then they called 
me back, but if I didn't want to go back, I needed to say, "Oh, I've 
moved to Oregon." But you had to be in the right-sized town. You 
couldn't be in, I don't know, Blue River, Oregon, but you could be 
in Eugene. That was a big enough town that would be comparable 
to finding a job in California.  
 So, I did that. And then I did some independent seamstress work. 
And— 
Long:  And this is '76.  
Harris:  This is, yeah, going to be '76, '77. And I also had started to study 
astrology just as I was leaving the Bay Area. And for a while, I 
really earned some of my living as an astrologer. And I was 
involved in a wonderful group here in Eugene that was a self-
taught, self-oriented, self-organizing study group. And we went on 
for many years. That was a wonderful experience. I love grassroots 
education, and things where people take responsibility for teaching 
themselves, and that was a great— so, I was in that group when 
this woman came to talk to us, and she had just started this 
bookstore, Peralandra. And she herself was a science fiction reader, 
but she had three partners in California who were in on this with 
her, and they were all more mystically inclined, and realized that 
there was no, generic term  “metaphysical” bookstore in Eugene. 
And so, they urged her in that direction.  She was there at our 
meeting to see if people could suggest books to her, or what  we 
might be interested in. I went and applied for a job there. And—  
Raiskin:  And where was it located?  
Harris:  It was located on East Eleventh near Alder where there  is— that 
building isn't there anymore, but there was an old theater building, 
the Mayflower Theater, was there. And we were in a beautiful, old, 
high ceiling building. Later we moved downtown in another 
theater building, the McDonald Theater building, that is still there, 
another high-ceilinged, wonderful space. But anyway, after only a 
year and a half or so, then I became the manager, because she got 
divorced and needed to really earn some money, because she had a 
family to support. And, after only about a year and a half, they 
decided they wanted to sell the business, and I was able to buy it 
very inexpensively, because she already had accounts established. 
It would have cost me thousands of dollars. In those days, probably 
would have cost me $20,000 to have started the bookstore, but as it 
was, I was able to borrow money from friends and family, and get 
into it for about $5,000, because I was able to take over her 
accounts. So I had thirty  days to pay for things, and just gradually 
built that bookstore up. 
Long:  This is in 1977 then, or— 
Harris:  Yes, I think that it was, and then I bought it in 1979. And I can't 
quite remember when my more lesbian activities took place, but I 
think they must have started, though, before I went to work in the 
bookstore, because I remember going to Mother Kali's a lot, and 
also, particularly, I remember the book Sandino's Daughters, which 
is about how women of all classes participated in the Sandinista  
struggle in Nicaragua. I think I talked to them a little bit about 
coming to work there, but that didn't happen, but then when there 
were this, "Well, a bookstore made perfect sense for me. 
Absolutely." So, I had started to be involved in the Mother Kali's 
community when I started the bookstore.  
Raiskin:  Can you described that community, and what that bookstore was 
like, and maybe your relationship with Izzie? 
Harris:  Yeah, well, it had a few different locations, and Izzie wasn't there 
when I first went there. It was a collective of Ellen Greenlaw, and 
Devi, a poet, and maybe some other names will come to me, but 
those were two women who were really involved. Later, Izzie 
joined that collective, and then I think, as I understand  it, that some 
of those— she just took on more. She took on more work for no 
pay, and other women were getting really into their thirties, and it 
became— I remember feeling this very much myself of, "Look, it's 
been okay to just be living hand to mouth, and on food stamps, and 
part-time jobs in my twenties, but I can see this is not the way I 
want to continue. I need to have something more established." 
Whereas, Izzie then was retired, and she just worked. She gave her 
life to that bookstore, but the early years were before she was there.  
 And, we were certainly friends. We participated in some book 
groups together. And, what else? And then we were colleagues in 
the sense that we were both bookstore owners. Somewhere around, 
it might have been '87, I'm not really quite remembering. If I bought 
the bookstore in '79, it wasn't quite ten years into it when Shirley  
MacLaine gave a lot of emphasis to a mystical new age kinds of 
things. And so, my bookstore was in the position to really benefit 
from that interest. But then after, probably,  another ten or a dozen 
or so years, Amazon came on board, and it began to be the demise 
of independent bookstores. And I realized that I didn't want to 
work so hard and not make much money. And, by that time, I had 
bought a house with some help from my father, and I just wanted 
to not work for— 
Raiskin:  Let's go back to the beginning of your bookstore. Can you describe 
what it looked like, the kinds of things you carried, who came, the 
place of it in the community?  
Harris:  Well, people tell me all the time, will remember that bookstore, and 
it had a few different locations also. I mean, it seemed like 
everybody came, but it's interesting, because, I find that men tend 
to remember it as the feminist bookstore, and it always tickles me, 
because, as I said, we  all honored Mother Kali's as being the 
feminist bookstore, although we were feminists too, but it's 
amusing to me that men remember it in that way. There was a lot 
of exploration. All kinds of people came to the bookstore, from 
children and young adults, and it was always more women than 
men. And we carried books on meditation, and the major mystical 
traditions, and we also had fiction, and political things, and 
women's studies too. And women's spirituality was really big 
during that time. And I would say that was a meeting of the 
feminist and the spiritual, and that was important to me. And met  
some wonderful women in those circles, and women that I had 
lesbian relationships with.  
 Let's see, what else? I don't know what else. Maybe— 
Long:  Did you have a partner then?  
Harris:  You mean a romantic partner?  
Long:  Yes. 
Harris:  The longest I had a lesbian relationship was a couple years. Usually 
they were pretty short lived, and some of them were just almost 
one night stands, which shocked me, but it happened. And, it was 
after a while back, I just felt like I wasn't really having a good 
lesbian relationship, or an ongoing lesbian relationship. And I just 
felt like, I don't want to limit myself to that. I don't want to exclude 
that. And it was so important to have a lesbian community, and 
that lesbian modeling. I mean, a word I liked a lot was “woman-
identified woman.” We were really living our own lives, and 
people were doing Starflower, and Gertrude's Café, and other 
kinds of women owned businesses, which of course, I was also 
participating in that way. And then, just the sense of camaraderie, 
and the music we shared, the dancing we shared, it was very rich, 
and I'm really grateful that I had it, and was a very rich, rich time in 
my life.  
 However, for me personally, I wasn't finding what I wanted to find 
as a partnership. And so, I opened myself to that possibility, and  
then I got more involved in the Central American community, and 
that's where I did meet the man who is still my partner, Ross, and 
he made it easier for me to stop the bookstore, too. I mean, he was 
going to help give me some support, because I didn't have a lot of 
savings. But nonetheless, I did all right, because all the money I had 
made had pretty much gone into the bookstore when I finally did 
liquidate it, and I had to close it, liquidate  it. I didn't sell it. I tried 
to, but the bookstore business was not that great at that time. I did 
have a bunch of savings as the books were sold off. I was always 
felt like I got out of something, the fact that Izzie died before I told 
her I was going to close the bookstore, because I felt like she would 
have felt like that was really selling out. Because she was going to 
hold on, no matter what. And, she did wonderful things there.  
Raiskin:  We're talking about Izzie Harbaugh— 
Harris:  Yeah. In Mother Kali's bookstore.  
Raiskin:  —who actually passed away in her bookstore.  
Harris:  Yes, that's right. Well, yes, that's right. That's right. She had a 
stroke, and they took her to Sacred Heart, which was nearby, and 
miraculously, were allowed to take her way, and so that she could 
die on a couch in Mother Kali's bookstore. That was really a very 
meaningful event for all of us in the community.  
Long:  That must have been in the '90s then.   
Harris:  Yes, yes. Right. I closed the business in '99. I think she passed in '98, 
I think, as I recall, because I know she used to— sometimes when I 
would say to her things like, "Well, I'm going to the booksellers 
fair—“ and a convention, an occupational convention, and you can 
write that off on your taxes.  And she would just look at me like, 
"What a sellout that was." It was just how you do business. So, I 
was really, as I say, I was relieved that I never had to look her in the 
eye and tell her that I was going to close Peralandra, because I 
knew I was thinking about it in the last days of her life. And 
feminist book fairs were a really important thing too. During those 
years, there were the International Feminist Book Fairs, and I took 
my first trip to Europe, out of the country, other  than going to 
Mexico, to London, to a feminist book fair, and I later went to one 
in Barcelona that was just more fun than you should really be 
allowed to have, I think.  
 And, the final one I went to was in Amsterdam. And then they 
stopped— I mean, I know there was at least one in Australia that I 
didn't go to, but those were really exciting. There were a lot of 
women's publishers; Aunt Lute, and Spinsters Inc. I could 
remember probably others of them, but— This Bridge Called My 
Back: Writings of Women of  Color, very, very exciting, intellectual 
time. When I was with— Gyn/Ecology, Mary Daly's book. I was 
definitely in a book group at Mother Kali's around that book that 
Izzie participated in, too, and her partner, Lorraine. They were very 
stimulating rich years.   
Raiskin:  When you partnered with Ross, did you feel that you had to leave 
your women's community?  
Harris:  I was very nervous about that. I was very afraid of it. Well, for one 
thing, I didn't really say to myself, "Well, I'm really going to be with 
Ross." It was like, "Well, I'm just going to have, maybe, an affair." 
But my community really surprised me in a happy way, really. By 
that time, and this is '90, there was more understanding, I think, 
within the women's community that, not all lesbian relationships 
were happy, and not every feminist woman was— was that 
necessarily the right road for her? And there were other, then, 
lesbian women who— we later called ourselves the hasbians . So, 
me, Jan Eliot, and Laurie  McClain, and it wasn't such an unusual 
experience. Although, I did feel especially from some of the women 
I hadn't really known as well, personally, but more just community 
members a little, understandably feeling a little bit betrayed by 
what we were.  After all, we could pass, and we could pass and get 
more acclaim, or more support in the community than lesbians had 
at that point, but I always had  a lot of lesbian friends, and felt like 
was important for me to speak out as a supporter of lesbians, and 
to acknowledge that I'd been a lesbian, and to really not identify as 
a heterosexual woman. That didn't feel right to me. And that was a 
concern, actually. Okay, I'm fine with Ross, and we have a lot of 
nice lesbian friends, and maybe there's a man here, or a man there 
that I like  but, eh, I don't want to really be in the general milieu of 
where it's expected that you would be heterosexual. So, there were  
some difficult transitions there, but, overall, I felt supported by the 
lesbian friends who I was close to.  
Raiskin:  Now we're 1990-ish. I'm thinking the next big thing that happens in 
the community is Measure 9. And, I'm wondering what that 
experience was like for you, and who you were with at that time.  
Harris:  I was with Ross at  that time, and I'm sorry to say I wasn't more 
active in that campaign. A woman who worked for me, Laura 
Philips, was active in that— and many of the women I knew were 
more active in that campaign, and also in AIDS work at that time. I 
was more into Central America at that point, but I do remember 
Laura was— I had wonderful women who worked for me, and 
Laura Philips was right up there at the top. And, particularly, I 
imagine you have been told the story of when Lon Mabon, the 
leader of the proposition 9 thing, when we have the Eugene 
celebration and the parade, which was such a big thing in the '80s 
and '90s, how she got everyone who wanted to, to turn their backs 
on him, and his group as they— which was just such a really 
powerful, and not violent, or antagonistic way of dealing with it, 
was just to turn your back, and that was the statement. It was an 
important— I'm sure I went to fundraisings and various events 
around that.  
Raiskin:  But this is also the time that people were ferrying people from 
Guatemala to Oregon as Sanctuary.  
Harris:  Yes, that's right. That's right.   
Raiskin:  Were you involved with that?  
Harris:  I wasn't, but Ross was, Ross and his mother, and their church, the 
Central Presbyterian Church here in Eugene, were very active in 
the Sanctuary Movement. I wasn't particularly involved in that 
part.  
Raiskin:  And it’s interesting that Holly Near's music was following your 
trajectory as well.  
Harris:  Oh yeah. Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yeah. 
And Cris Williamson was really important, and Alix— Dobkin? 
Raiskin:  Dobkin. 
Harris:  And some wonderful comedy, including Laura Philips had a 
wonderful group called Girls Like Us, that was just so very, very 
funny and original. Oh, and, let's see— The comic book writer. Oh 
boy.  
Raiskin:  Alison Bechdel.  
Harris:  Alison Bechdel. I mean, Allison Bechdel was so important. And, of 
course, a lot of her characters, they were in bookstores, they ran 
bookstores, and there was such a gamut of characters. And they're 
doing her play. The musical is being done here in Eugene in 
October, I think. And I actually went to Portland to see it.  Fun 
House  [Fun Home], and I read her books. Again, just such an 
independent spirit, and outspoken about the talents and powers of 
women.   
Raiskin: So what have you done since— So, you sold the store, bought a 
home, and then, what other involvements were you in, in Eugene?  
Harris:  Ah, well, I wish I could say I was involved in a lot more, but the 
Central American work died down,  the Iraq War happened, and I 
didn't want to learn a whole new, what, political history of Middle 
East. I mean, I'm basically informed, but I was much more 
informed about Latin America, and I didn't want to put in that kind 
of energy again. What else can I say about that?  
Raiskin:  Did you keep up your  sewing, or any  craft work?  
Harris:  No, not particularly. Just for my myself. I began to study singing 
again, and I am a participant in the Eugene Symphony chorus, and 
I love that. And I also taking private lessons and singing classical 
music, and I love singing jazz, and I love singing folk music. I really 
love singing and dancing a lot. And— 
Raiskin:  Did you ever sing with Soromundi?  
Harris:  No, I never did. I think by the time Soromundi got started, I think I 
was singing with  the Symphony chorus, or maybe with the Eugene 
Concert Choir. One thing that works better for me is when it's a 
really a limited amount of performance work, because I just like to 
have a little more freedom to come and go and do things I want to 
do, than to— and Soromundi had a more regular performance 
schedule. And also, I would say, for a group singing, I prefer more 
classical music.   
Long:  Did you do any work for pay, or how did you support yourself?  
Harris:  No, I lived off my savings, and Ross also gave me some assistance. 
And then, took an early Social Security.  
Raiskin:  What do you think are the attractive options for aging as a woman, 
or a woman who loves women in Eugene?  
Harris:  Well, gosh, I guess just that there's so many active single women 
everywhere. Anywhere you go, you can go to events at the library. 
The libraries are wonderful, the public library. That was great 
when that got built here, and it took quite a few votes before it 
finally got passed. And I just think it's such a beautiful building, 
and, again, they bring wonderful speakers. And then the 
university, until recently, I don't find it so as much anymore, but 
the university was a very rich resource. There used to just be all 
kinds of visiting people come and giving talks here. I used to  come 
to talks at the university really often. Probably, at least once a week, 
I would say. I came to hear a guest lecturer or something going on, 
the center for women's— 
Raiskin:  Center for the Study of Women in Society.  
Harris:  —of women's society. They brought a lot of wonderful people here. 
It just doesn't seem to quite happen the way it used to. Also, with 
more book selling going on online, there are fewer bookstores, 
there are fewer traveling authors. There used to be more traveling 
authors. So, I guess I'm indicating, it's always was more the 
intellectual studying realm that interested me most. But I will say,  
when I go to any of these kinds of events, and now, perhaps, it's 
more at the library than somewhere else, there are a  lot of single 
women there, and you strike up conversations with one another, 
and have a sense that women are living good lives here, older 
women are. And, I think a lot of older men are living good lives 
here too. You see people, or to me, to be able to say, "Come to an 
inexpensive concert at Beall Hall, or go to an event at the library. 
Come to something occasionally at the university." I still can hear a 
great talk at the university. That still happens. Not as frequently, I 
would say, as it used to, but— 
Raiskin:  Do you feel a sense of community with your long term friends 
here?  
Harris:  Yes, although a lot of people have moved, and I would say, that's 
maybe a hard thing in Eugene. And also, as we get older, we do go 
out less. I mean, I always went out a lot. Not everyone I know went 
to all these events at the university or at the library. And, it seems 
like people go out less as they get older, and, of course, people have 
some limited physical things. I am aware of a group in Eugene 
that's trying to explore more options for older people to live 
together. Aging in Community, I think, is what it's called. And, I 
think in terms of my neighborhood, and think in terms of my house 
is all on one level, and being able to age in place, and catch the bus 
to get around. I think there are good resources here, but could 
always use more.   
Raiskin:  You've had such a rich life, and continue to have such a rich life. If 
you were to tell a young person, give advice to a young person 
now, was there something that particularly you would say?  
Harris:  It's funny you should mention that, because I have a friend who's 
doing a video project, and she asked me if I would be wise old 
woman and everything. And I said, "No. The thing that attracted 
me here was because it was about the community, and because that 
was so important in my life." But I'll scratch my head now and try 
and think of something.  
Raiskin:  Well, I'm just thinking about young women who are growing up at 
a time, a different feminist time. It's not that they're not feminist, 
but it's different than ours.  
Harris:  Yes, it is. And such technological differences, such popular culture 
concerns me a lot. Young women who feel a lot of peer pressure 
from how they have to appear on Facebook or something, or a 
sense that young people are growing up without maybe a sense of, 
that they have a right to privacy, or that they can really find an 
independent life for themselves. I always felt like I don't quite fit 
into whatever the category is. I don't quite fit in. And to find 
independent ways. And, I don't know how that is for young 
women. I mean, certainly, I guess the advice I think of is to find 
something you really love to do, and get really good at it. I think 
that's seems to be, over time, a really good suggestion, and I've also 
heard people say find a place where you really want to live, and I 
feel really good about the choice of Eugene. And, I like that the  
mountains and the ocean are accessible here. I like that Portland, a 
major city, is not that far away, and San Francisco isn't that far 
away. And, I appreciate those things about it. I don't know more 
about— sometimes  I just feel like I don't know what their world is.  
Raiskin:  Did you follow the Axemen debate at all in the high school?  
Harris:  Yes. Yeah. Yeah. I can't say, is I had a really strong—  
Raiskin:  It was  interesting to hear young women's attitude about being 
called Axemen?  
Harris:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  They didn't seem to mind. And most of them didn't mind that.  
Harris:  Right. That's right.  
Raiskin:  That would have been something central for us, I think.  
Harris:  Yes. I think that's right. Yes.  
Raiskin:  And have you maintained a group, or a particularly spiritual 
interest?  
Harris:  Yeah, I have actually been more of serious student of Buddhism in 
recent years. And, there was a wonderful Sangha here in Eugene, 
led by lesbian lamas who have a center down in Ashland. And they 
were both women who were community participants here in 
Eugene. In fact, one of them was a manager at my bookstore for a 
while. So, I love to say, "Oh, yes, my lama." She used to manage me,  
is what I would say about that. Now, they're old enough that that 
wasn't really working well for them. They need to move more 
toward retirement, although they still are active in Ashland. And 
so, they don't come to Eugene on a regular basis anymore. But I 
have been participating in a small Zen group that has a woman 
teacher, and a very fine, fine one. I would say I'm personally 
struggling with some of these issues at the moment about, "Gosh, 
I'm not as politically active as I used to be, or I want to be.", or, "I'm 
not quite having what new kinds of friendship circles when I 
make."  
 I certainly have a feeling of political work of wanting to do more 
that is national, or is in my town, like issues of homelessness 
interest me a lot, and I follow them. But then there's a tug of war 
between, "I don't have the energy to go out to meetings the way I 
used to, and I don't know if even they have meetings the way they 
used to, or if a lot is done on email." I find that email is handy. 
There are things it's good at, but I don't really want to try to express 
myself on it. And, as I say, a lot of friends have moved away, and 
starting to be, friends have died. And then things shift anyway. 
Even if they haven't moved away, people's interests and energies 
shift. And I think, certainly, the current political situation is— I am 
one of those people of whom there are many I know who just try to 
keep our head above water, try not to just be so very discouraged 
about what's going on.   
 And of course, there are things to be encouraged about too, and not 
to give up, but it's sad. I think it's very sad to feel like you struggled 
for a lot of things that, all those political meetings, and all those 
issues, and it just seems like they're being eradicated, and 
especially scary to think that the Supreme Court would become a 
really right wing faction, because it's been really supportive. It felt 
like things were getting better in a lot of ways. Although I think we 
also have to look, and I  thought this at the time too, that we aren't 
looking enough, that we, liberal, left-wing, progressive people, 
aren't looking enough at the working class people who are really 
being left out of what we consider the progress that's going on.  
Raiskin:  Why do  you think Eugene has been a magnet for people like you 
and other women, other lesbians, and people who are politically 
minded?  
Harris:  Yeah. Well, there was— I mean, things got started here, so that 
there were  co-ops, and Jackrabbit  Press, and Women's Press. So, I 
think when women arrived here and saying, "I'm going to move 
from California," or, "maybe I'm going to move from the West 
Coast, or from the Midwest." There were things to plug into here to 
get involved with, so that— what  was the name? Northwest 
Working Press wasn't particularly feminist, but it was definitely 
lefty, and— I don't know. There was a certain Aquarian energy 
here, from an astrological point of view, of people who like to— I 
don't know. By the time I got here— I know people tell me who 
were here earlier; that it used to be a very sleepy little town. But by  
the time I got here, it wasn't really very sleepy anymore. There's so 
much culture here for the size of it. I think that still is really true. 
And the university was an important part of that.  
 I always felt like I can't imagine that I would live in a town that 
didn't have a university, even though I've been disappointed in the 
direction this one has gone, and the things that they don't offer that 
they used to in terms of humanitarian and cultural, exciting 
cultural things, more emphasis on sports and business. But, I don't 
know exactly— but nonetheless, when we arrived here, we felt like, 
"Oh, there's people here like me." And, certainly, its proximity, as I 
mentioned, to Portland, the ocean, the mountains, you get a lot 
more when you're in Eugene from those things too, other than just 
what's here in Eugene. And still an amazing amount of theater, and 
music, and experimental art, and all kinds of— it’s still a wonderful 
place to be, I think.  
Long:  Was there anything you wanted to talk about that we haven't ask 
you yet? 
Harris:  That we haven't. Yes, that is a really good question. Let me see if 
I've got anything written down here. I felt like we covered the 
areas,  the things that I had thought of. I think I've talked about the 
highlights that I had thought. Well, Gertrude's Café became 
another cafe after a while, didn't it? It had another name.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe where it was, and what it was like?   
Harris:  It was on Lincoln between Eleventh and Twelfth. And the building 
is still there. It was a big, beautiful, big front porch, white building. 
It was a little before my time, in that, I came in a little bit on the tail 
end of it. That, and I didn't have a lot of money to go out for meals 
in those days. But nonetheless, it was a women's café, and I 
remember Mother Kali's being around the corner in one of their 
incarnations. I think they must have been in a space on Eleventh 
Avenue. But it seems like it became something else after it was 
Gertrude's; the Wild Iris. It became the Wild Iris. And— 
Long:  That was a feminist café, though, too, wasn’t it?  
Harris:  Yes. Right. Yes. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Just had a different name, 
different owners.  
Raiskin:  Did you use to meet, there, other people and eat, or— 
Harris:  Sometimes, yeah. As I say, maybe there was more going out at that 
point to the truck stop, Mama's Homefried Truckstop in this 
university neighborhood. A little more hippie element was 
probably— those  cafés felt a little bit expensive for what we could 
afford. Went over— Zoo Zoo's was another collective café that we 
went to, the Kestrel  Café. And of course, Saturday Market, going to 
Saturday market. I met wonderful friends at Saturday market. And 
always, women were a good part of the participants there.  
Raiskin:  Well, you've painted a really nice picture of that time. So, thank 
you very much.   
Long:  Yeah, thank you very much.  
Raiskin:  Thank you. Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  