 
 
Long:  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon's Special Collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Anne Laskaya on Thursday, 
September 5, 2019 taking place in the University of Oregon 
Libraries’  recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. Anne, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project and 
that you give your permission for the university to preserve and 
make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Laskaya:  I agree.   
 
Long:  Great. Thank you. Let's start with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background?  
Laskaya:  Okay. I was born in Vancouver, Washington. Do you want the 
date?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Laskaya:  Nineteen fifty-three. And my childhood up until seventh grade was 
incredibly chaotic. For example, I lived in four different places in 
the six years of grade school. And my parents had education, went 
to college, both of them. Very bright, but also disturbed. And so my 
siblings and I like to say that we were raised by wolves. We did live 
homeless almost an entire year in the late ‘50s, but it was a kind of 
homelessness that itself was privileged in that we had a car and we 
lived out of the car and then we would go and stay with different 
family members around Washington State, from Seattle all the way 
in the west of the state and then to Walla Walla in the east of the 
state.  And sometimes slept in the car and sometimes slept on the 
side of the road. My father was unemployed in that time. And it 
was just a really rough time. And the really— 
Raiskin:  How many siblings did you have?  
Laskaya:  I'm the oldest and there are three younger ones. I have two younger 
brothers and then a younger sister. My father was a disturbed 
person in part because he was a sexual predator, which is part of  
 
why we wound up homeless— run out of town and unable then to 
reestablish anywhere. And also damaged  by his World War II 
experience. He was a battering husband and a battering parent and 
wound up eventually serving ten years in the Washington State 
Penitentiary.  
 It gives you some idea of— but my mother divorced him when I  
was in seventh grade. Although economically things were really 
hard we were all recovering from the experience we'd had living 
with him. I can say that but they both went to college. They both 
were highly educated. I mean, for the time; they cared a great deal 
about education. Both of them wanted us to do well. We had no 
television in the home.  They both thought it was inane. And so we 
were to read books and we loved reading books, most of us. We 
had an educational privilege but an economic disadvantage. And I 
suppose a social-emotional disadvantage that you could say.  
Raiskin:  How did you do at school and during those years? Both 
academically and socially?  
Laskaya:  Socially I was very withdrawn. That was true all the way through 
college, even kind of graduate school. And I did really well 
academically. It was a haven for me.  
Raiskin:  Did any teachers take an interest in you?  
Laskaya:  Yeah. My memory is kind of in and out when you go earlier. It's 
hard to remember, but I do remember Mrs. Douglas who was my  
 
fourth grade teacher. In Pasco  I went to Emerson Elementary 
School, which no longer has that name. I don't know what's 
happened exactly, but I think they've just renamed it.  
 But she had traveled all over Europe in the year before, or in the 
summer, I guess before I had her in fourth grade. And she came in, 
she was all excited about all these places in the world she had been. 
And shared with us all sorts of slides. And it just captivated me and 
it was wonderful because it increased my sense of the world. 
Although my mother's sister was married and lived in Lebanon 
[the country] most of the time that I was in grade school. And then 
they also lived in Nairobi and Egypt and Monrovia and Delhi in 
India. Did I say Ethiopia? Kenya?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Laskaya:  Anyway, so my aunt and uncle there all my life had established a 
kind of world view that was far bigger than I think most people in 
small towns in Washington or even in Eugene when I was here.  
Long:  Yeah. And during your elementary school years, your family 
moved to Eugene, is that right?  
Laskaya: Yes, they moved.  
Long:  Why did you move to Eugene?  
Laskaya:  Because my father was run out of town again. Anyway, he was 
admitted into a graduate program here in counseling and  
 
psychology. We moved here and we lived in student housing and I 
went to Condon for fifth grade and then sixth grade when it was 
still in elementary school. Now, it's a building that belongs to the U 
of O that’s  part of our campus. But it was at that time Condon 
Elementary.  
Long:  What year was that when you moved to Eugene?  
Laskaya: I don't know. I was in fifth grade.  
Long:  Fifth grade, so probably the mid-60s?  
Laskaya:  Sixty-three. No, early.  
Long:  Early ‘60s.  
Laskaya:  Yeah.  
Long:  What was Eugene like at that time?  
Laskaya:  It was a university town for sure. And the downtown was vibrant. 
Had a small downtown, there was no Valley River, there were no 
malls. And of course the campus became very active. I mean in my 
memory, because I was so young. I was sort of aware of what was 
happening on the U of O campus. Maybe late junior high. So that 
would've been the mid to late ‘60s when all sorts of things were 
happening, including fire bombings here on campus.  
Long:  Was that during the Vietnam protests?   
 
Laskaya:  Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Protests like that and also civil rights protests, yes. 
And doors of churches were blown off when I was in high school.  
And the ROTC building was firebombed multiple times when I 
was in high school, I went to South Eugene, so it's really close to the 
campus. And occasionally those of us who were kind of nerds and 
but also aware of what was happening in the world— we would 
walk out from South—you were not allowed actually even out the 
doors in those days that you could get suspended from school if 
you just walked out the building if you weren't in gym and 
accompanied by people.  
 But there were at least fifty to one hundred  of us who occasionally 
would walk out and come over and join the protest here. That was 
really exciting as well as depressing. But because the war was 
going on, because civil rights was such an issue, because there was 
so much injustice around the war itself and the  draft itself. Coming 
of age knowing that your country liked to use people's bodies right 
now as cannon fodder, particularly those who were working class 
and nonwhite— I was aware of that in high school and really 
disturbed. The cool thing was of course all of that action that 
happened all over the country did have an effect, did make some 
difference. It took a long time, but it did. And of course right now 
we're backsliding, but it was  exciting to feel like you could join up 
with many people and help make a difference.  
 When I was in high school, Eugene was very proud that it was 
called the “Northern Berkeley.” And there was a lot of dissent on  
 
campus. A lot of really positive, most of it positive. Some of it was 
really violent and just vandalizing or abusing people or whatever, 
but most of it was really productive nonviolent demonstration. 
Yeah. It was great.  
Raiskin:  Who were you close with in high school?  
Laskaya:  I was close with other people in my class as a junior and as a senior. 
You want me to name names?  
Raiskin:  No, just what was your world like?  
Laskaya:  Oh, I ran with the nerds and I didn't have any close friends, but I 
had quite a number of friends, kind of. And some of them I had 
actually  gone to grade school with. Some of them— they tended to 
be high achieving students, doctors’, lawyers’, accountant's kids, 
university professors’ kids, university administrators’ kids, not 
completely, but for the most part.  
Raiskin:  And what did you feel about the sort of a high school dating scene 
or sport scene or the kind of social world that most students 
participate in happily or not happily?  
Laskaya:  I mostly did not participate. I dated two different people in high 
school who— I mean "dated" I mean, I went on a date, okay, with a 
guy named Don Crawford who wouldn't be upset if I used his 
name. And I just thought, “Ew! Don't like this” [chuckles].  And he 
kept trying, and we were friends kind of like kids are now in a way 
where they sort of go out and do things as a whole group and you  
 
don't necessarily have two by two by two. And our group was sort 
of like that.  
 And then the other person who I also don't think would mind if I 
named him was Ron Siegel, who I really, really liked a lot.  His 
father was Barry Siegel, who was a professor here at the university. 
And Ron and I had gone to fifth and sixth grade together at 
Condon and then we met back up. I went to Spencer Butte, he was 
at Roosevelt. We met back up at South and we were good friends. 
We were just really good friends. I went twice on a date with him 
and then thought, I can't do this. Poor Ron.  
Raiskin:  Did you know anything about lesbian— 
Laskaya:  No.  
Raiskin:  Relationships or anything?  
Laskaya:  No.  
Raiskin:  Existence or anything? 
Laskaya:  No, I didn't. This is a nice little story for the times. I'm sure there 
are, I mean, I know people, we all know people who sort of 
somehow knew in their bones from the time they were children.  I 
think because of the abuse I went through I just  was cut off from 
and really was cut off from even thinking about sexuality. Didn't 
want to think about it, just wanted to study. I did have a crush on 
my PE teacher when I was in junior high. I'm sure she's no longer  
 
alive. There were rumors about her that circulated when my 
younger sister, eight years younger, went through junior high. I'm 
pretty sure she belonged to our tribe. I was then very active in 
sports in junior high and the first year of high school because it was 
all women together. It was just,  I think, great. But I wasn't aware. I 
wasn't aware. I was aware that men could do this. I was running 
around in music scenes a lot and there were more men in that arena 
who were somewhat out or known.  
 I knew that men could be gay when I was I don't know, junior high, 
high school. But I honestly had absolutely no knowledge that 
women were like that.  
 And in freshman year in college, I went to college at a small school 
in Wisconsin and my roommate who wouldn't care if I used her 
name, Donna Stetz— she and another friend who lived in the 
freshmen women's dorm but another friend who lived right down 
the hall, Laurie  Sterns. Anyway, the two of them would 
occasionally lock me out of the room and I was the roommate with 
Donna and I couldn't get into the room and  sometimes I had to 
sleep in the basement of the dorm by the spring term of freshman 
year. And I would pound on the door and I was really upset. I had 
no idea. Anyway, they wound up rooming together sophomore 
year and I roomed in a whole other building.  But then junior year,  
the year I turned twenty-one they both— we remained sort of 
tangential friends.  I wasn't really in their group. I was in the nerd 
and music group. But when I turned twenty-one, they insisted that  
 
they wanted to take me out for dinner. This is in Wisconsin, small 
town, Wisconsin. We went to this really nice restaurant and they 
said, "We have to apologize to you. We've been waiting and we 
have to apologize to you." And I said— I mean, I'd forgotten about 
it— “For what?" "For locking you out of your room freshman year." 
They told me that “We're a couple, we're partners, we're likely to be 
together all our lives. We're really committed.” And it didn't 
process. And I think I remember just saying ”What?” Then they 
said, "We have sex together." Whispering because we were in a— 
"We have sex together." And I said in a big voice, "No you don't!" 
 I didn't believe it. I thought because they liked to pull tricks on me. 
I was so naive and I thought they were pulling my leg again but it 
didn't take too long for me to realize they had been roommates 
then for three years. They went on being roommates. I don't know 
what happened to their relationship. I do know that Donna went to 
work eventually for the National Geological Society or Survey. I 
don't know what happened really with their relationship or what 
happened to Laurie. I lost track of Laurie at graduation. But they 
were the first people who really tried to wake me up [chuckles] and 
I don't know that they had anything to say about me. They just 
wanted me to understand that they felt bad about having locked 
me out of my— 
Raiskin:  Do you remember how you felt? I know you didn't believe at first, 
but how your feeling was realizing that women could be in 
relationship with each other and be sexual together?   
 
Laskaya:  It was fine with me. I mean, it wasn't part my worldview, but after 
they talked to me for a little while, I just thought, okay.  
Raiskin:  It didn't seem to relate to you.  
Laskaya:  No, no. It didn't seem to relate to me. Not in a conscious sort of 
way. I mean, I definitely, when I look back, I was completely in 
love with a childhood friend of mine named Meredith. And I went 
into a really horrible depression as a child when we left Pasco, 
Washington where she lived right across the back fence. Our 
mothers even made us dresses that were exactly the same.  We cut 
our hair exactly the same. I was in love with her as a child could be.  
I just didn't understand what that meant, but I was in grief for at 
least a year when we first moved here. Looking back I can say, “Oh 
yeah! That's what that was!” but at the time, I didn't know.  
Raiskin:  Would you mind just going back a bit to further describe what it 
was like being a student at South Eugene High School and the 
kinds of activities that you were involved in?  
Laskaya:  Yeah, sure. I was involved in journalism and became the editor for 
The Axe  my senior year. Being involved with the high school 
newspaper was one of the high points of my high school years. 
And then music was the other one.  And then I was in all these AP 
classes. They at the time had basically tracks, so kids who were 
performing well in the system that's set up for kids or was set up at 
the time for kids. The kids who performed really well— we were in 
classes together, math, science. Some kids weren't in everything,  
 
but there was kind of this core of us who were like the real nerds 
who were in the advanced math, in advanced science, in advanced 
history, English lit, whatever. Only one or two were actually also 
involved in sports. There were a few. It was very clique-ish, I 
would say. I imagine that's true of high school anytime. We had a 
principal, Mr. Moffitt, I can use his name, he's gone, I'm sure. He 
was older than my mother. He was really disturbed by the activism 
in Eugene and also at South.  He called us the “lunatic fringe” and 
we would have assemblies where he would just rant and rage and 
be all red in the face about the lunatic fringe. And we all knew that 
he was talking about us. He didn't use our names, but because 
there were so many of us who walked out and there were so many 
kids who came from really privileged homes with parents with 
social status, nothing happened to any of us. If it had been a small 
group, I think we would have wound up in the newspaper and 
written up and expelled from school for two weeks or I don't know 
what. But because it was a larger group of at least fifty kids who 
would walk out, he was more intimidated by the parents and, I 
think, the news that that would've created than he was by us.  
 I can tell you  I was aspirational as a junior, so I took the PSAT, did 
really well, decided I might go to an Ivy League school, which my 
mother kept telling me  was like out of our reach, economically. 
And I just didn't listen. But I had a counselor who I will name, who 
I'm sure is also gone. And I'm sorry if her family doesn't like this, 
too bad. Her name was Nina Kitts. And I remember when she  
 
called us in— she was the counselor and counselors had something 
to do with at least talking to high school kids about where they 
might go to school. I told her, “I'm looking at Smith, I'm looking at 
Mount Holyoke, I'm  looking at Vassar, I'm looking…”  I was really 
drawn to other women's colleges. Here again is like subterranean 
knowledge that I didn't have consciousness of. I was very aware of 
status and I was so aware of us always being outside of it that I 
was, I think, trying to find a way in.  
 And so Nina said to me, ”Oh, honey, you come from a broken 
home. You need to prepare to be a secretary.” So, every time I got 
an acceptance from Mount Holyoke, an acceptance from Smith, an 
acceptance from Vassar, an acceptance from Brown, an acceptance 
from wherever— I applied to a bunch of schools and I could in 
those days because they had a waiver if you were  from a home 
making less than— and I was with a single mom who taught piano 
lessons, was going to school herself. We had to turn off all the 
electricity all summer long just to be able to make it. So, it was no 
problem,  I could apply for it. I don't know how many I applied to, 
but I was turned down at two places, but all the others I got into 
and every acceptance I got I Xeroxed  and I put it under  her 
goddamn  door  [laughs]. 
 But ultimately I had to make an economic decision about where I 
went to school. I had to go where I got the most money and I got 
the most money at a small liberal arts college with a conservatory. I 
played violin. I got a complete ride based on my violin at Lawrence  
 
University which had a conservatory. I had to go every step of my 
education, I've had to go where I got the most money. I didn't 
realize what a badge meant. I didn't know how much it would have 
repercussions as I went on in my career. I actually resent it and I 
hate the elitism of all that shit. I deal with it here on this campus 
with colleagues who consider— doesn't mean everybody, but there 
are colleagues who consider themselves  better than everybody else 
because they went to certain schools. I'm so done with that and the 
ageism  on the campus now that I'm getting close to retirement. But 
anyway, so the kind of status and class stuff I think had a big 
negative pull in terms of what happened in my life.  
 But I am very proud of what I did with it and what I— it cost  less 
money for me to go to Lawrence than if I'd stayed at home and 
gone to the U of O because I had such a great deal. I was also 
determined to get away. I really, really wanted to get away.  
Raiskin:  What did you major in college?  
Laskaya:  I was interested in chemistry for a while. That was also a status 
thing. But my scholarship was based on violin performance. So I 
had to do a Bachelor of Music. They have a five year program. It's 
two bachelor's degrees, not a double major, but two degrees. And 
they still have it there. Oberlin has this program too, maybe a few 
others, but so if you come in— I had to finish that music degree— it 
would be like having a sports scholarship.  It was the way that I— 
plus I had to maintain a GPA of 3.7 and above, which in those days  
 
meant something. So Kimberly Clark was the  sponsor of my 
scholarship. Now I like to say that— 
Long:  The paper  products company? 
Laskaya:  That's right. Now I like to say that I went to college on tampons 
and Kleenex  [laughs]. But they were wonderful and there were two 
of us in each class chosen to have that full ride. As  the year went on 
though,  the next year tuition went up, the difference between the 
set amount that I had freshman year, that didn't increase. It was 
just a set amount that was given. Let's see, what else can I tell you? 
In college I had a French professor, her name was Anne Jones, 
beloved by many students there.  She was older. She was probably, 
when I had her, she must've been sixty. She had white hair. 
Anyway, she invited a little coterie of just a few girls to her house. 
This was after I was twenty-one, so it was in the senior year. But for 
me, that was my first senior. I had two senior years, so it took five 
years to do  the two degrees. But anyway,  she invited this small 
group and she lived in a duplex. And the person on the other side 
was her really dear friend, also named Anne, who was a nurse. 
And she made sure that we were introduced to Anne and then we 
had dinner at her house. And even at the time I thought to myself, 
because I've had a couple of great aunts who lived in this way who 
I sometimes would wonder about.  
 But at this point I was twenty-two, and so I knew they were 
partners, they were lifelong partners. They traveled together, they  
 
had separate careers. Anne was a French professor. And then the 
other Anne whose last name I don't know was an RN. And they 
had built a lovely little  life together and I was aware of their life. It 
still didn't hit me that this was my life. Okay, so what else  shall I 
tell you? Then I went to graduate school at the University of 
Rochester.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Laskaya:  I started in the fall of ‘76.  
Raiskin:  Your other major was English or literature?  
Laskaya:  It wound up— yeah,  I tried chemistry. I left that, I tried French, I 
left that, I tried philosophy, I left that. I wound up in English and I 
did the minimum English major. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  So you're going to graduate school Rochester in— 
Laskaya:  English.  
Raiskin:  English.  
Laskaya:  Yeah. And— 
Raiskin:  With the idea of becoming a professor? 
Laskaya:  Yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. I had thought  about law and I took the 
LSAT and did really well, but I didn't have any models where I did 
have people who were— I did not have anyone in my family who 
had a Ph.D. But I did have people who had master's degrees who  
 
had gone on including women who had gone on and gotten 
master's degrees.  
 I didn't have anybody in my family who was a lawyer. It was a 
little hard to conceive of what that would be. And my brother did 
that. He went on into law school, number three kid, eventually. 
And he was very bored with it. I'm so glad I did not choose it 
because it was kind  of— I learned it was sort of the same thing over  
and over,  like medicine in a way, unless you're doing absolutely 
research. If you're just practicing, it's kind of the same thing over 
and over and over and over again. I'm glad I made the decision that 
I made. I had a lot of push from certain professors to go to law 
school.  
 I felt very, very supported academically at that university and 
never felt like I did in chemistry. I felt like I wasn't supposed to be 
there, which is part of why I left. But once I landed in the 
humanities and was trying to find my way around in the 
humanities or even in social science courses I took, I never felt like 
the professors treated women differently than men. It was an 
extremely rich, good positive experience.  
Raiskin:  And what about graduate school?  
Laskaya:  Graduate school was a different phenomenon altogether. Yeah. 
Graduate school was horrendously sexist in terms of the 
atmosphere, expectations, statements by the faculty. It's part of how 
I became a medievalist because the professors who were teaching  
 
in Medieval and in also Renaissance or Early Modern were not that 
way. The rest of them were.  I was really interested in twentieth-
century American lit, but the professor made passes at me and 
many other people.  And when I got mad at him,  he just said, "Oh, 
you're really cute when you're mad." There was no way I was going 
to be working with somebody like that. The social openness and 
awareness of the professors that happened to be in the early fields  I 
think was huge part of how I became— like I could find a safe place 
there. When a graduate student woman would get pregnant, they 
would put her on leave. She couldn't even continue in the classes. It 
was still the remnants of a pretty conservative worldview in terms 
of the graduate program there. Or at least in terms of— I would say 
really, I think the graduate school there at that time, it wasn't just 
English.  
Long:  Can you remind us what year you started that program at 
Rochester?  
Laskaya:  What year I started?  
Long:  What year? 
Laskaya:  It was fall of 1976. Yeah. So let's see. I don't really have any other— 
I was engaged to a man when I was in graduate school.  
Raiskin:  How did that come to be?  
Laskaya:  We were good friends. He worked in neurochemistry, brilliant 
person. I really loved him. Now, I know I loved him like I love my  
 
brothers. We tried to live together. He's the one who first said—it 
was John who first said to me—“I don't think this is working out.” 
He'd been married before and for a short time. And he said “I really  
wonder if you're a lesbian.” And that was the first time somebody 
had ever said that to me. But I had no physical desire for him. 
None. But I just thought that's how it was. I didn't know.  
Raiskin:  What did you think when he said that?  
Laskaya:  Because in some ways my mother had modeled, but the reason 
she'd modeled it is because she was a battered wife. And for her it 
was very, very situational. It wasn't really, I don't think— although 
my mother is a question mark. We were engaged for a very short 
time  and then we were not, and I think I broke his heart.  
Raiskin:  When he said that to you was it meaningful?  
Laskaya:  I thought it was interesting and it started to roll around in my head. 
Yeah. I felt really bad because I broke his heart and he was really 
upset and really sad.  That was hard, but it was also right. I'm really 
glad he knew because otherwise I might never have known. Who 
knows. I was ABD, the recession of the early ‘80s comes and my 
mother had remarried by that time. And her husband had 
developed cancer and my mother never handled money well and 
neither did her second husband. They were underwater. They were 
going to lose their house. I had just lost my job in the hospital. I was 
working in the hospital there at Rochester—Strong Memorial—it's 
part of the University of Rochester and their medical school.   
 
 I thought, This is ridiculous, we need  to pool our resources. That's 
what brought me back home. I looked around for work and I was 
up at Puget Sound University interviewing in late September for a 
temporary— all of a sudden somebody had to be on bed rest for 
their pregnancy. They were looking for a temporary— probably a 
yearlong part time person. And I thought about it. The problem 
was just that then I'd have to have a place to live there. So it would 
take away from my salary, what I could use to help my mother 
keep her home.  
 And I was up there interviewing. And I just finished the interview 
and went back to the motel and I got a call from Thelma Greenfield 
here at the University of Oregon. And she said, "Your file is here. I 
don't know why you weren't hired in the summer." There were 
quite a few instructors who were hired in the summer by the 
previous department head. I was not hired, I went in for an 
interview, but I wasn't hired. And she said “My husband and I 
know Roland Collins who you studied old English with. In fact 
we're really good family friends with them. We know their kids. 
We sometimes have gone on vacations with them. I know what 
kind of education you had and I would like you to come  work.” 
And so, it was because of her, and I was hired term by term 
initially. Of course, I could have waited for the much better paying 
job at PSU, Puget Sound, but I didn't know whether I had it or not. 
And I knew I  had this. I just said yes and drove home and then 
lived at home. And the whole first year I gave the whole salary, all  
 
of $13,000 in those days, for teaching ten courses a year— I gave it 
all to my mom and her second husband, although  I lived there at 
their house, but in order that then they saved their house.  Also, 
Harold was undergoing treatment for cancer and he wound up a 
couple of years later dying from it. That's how I wound up in 
Eugene because my mother was here and needed help. And so I 
came back.  
Raiskin:  So you came back in 1980?  
Laskaya:  I came back in 1983.  
Raiskin:  Okay. Now tell us about your job here. Any social life that you 
created while taking  care of your family?  
Laskaya:  I had no social life. I had all these new courses to teach and family. I 
was helping out, helping my mom with Harold her second 
husband who was dealing with cancer. He was about twenty  years 
older than she was. She was trying to keep her job and nurse him 
and— medicine's broken, so it breaks families and it was important 
for me to show up for her.  
But in the second year, so 1983, ‘84, so in 1984, Suzy  wound up— 
my partner wound up in my class taking my class and here was 
this older person, I don't know, thirty-six, something like that, 
taking my class.  
 It was world lit, ancient world literature. And there  was this like 
sunbeam that kept coming at me from this face in my classroom. I  
 
thought that given what I knew  in the world, I'd been in, she went 
gray  early, Suzy  did. I thought she was a single mom going back to 
school, probably had kids at home. But she  was adorable. And she's 
the one who took steps to get to know me. As soon as she was not a 
student she pursued— 
Raiskin:  Why was she taking the classes?  
Laskaya:  She was taking the classes because Oregon didn't have reciprocity 
with the State of Michigan for teaching credentials. At the time, 
Oregon actually had no reciprocity with any state at all.  
Raiskin:  And she was a teacher.  
Laskaya:  Yeah. And she had taught— she was actually a master teacher. She 
had the rank of master teacher in the State of Michigan, which at 
the time prepared— in my opinion, I think stats will prove it— but 
Michigan prepared their teachers at that time in the ‘60s and ‘70s 
far better than most states in the country.  And she had the 
appellation of Master Teacher. She was so gifted  and also had 
accomplished so much. She taught for a while there, right out of 
school. She was six years older than me. And then she had 
awakened to her sexuality and had gone because of it— terrified to 
live in Michigan, small town, Michigan—so she and her partner, 
the first partner, went to Guam where Guam was always wanting 
teachers. They got paid very well, far more open  a society, the 
Chamorro culture, far more open to just didn't really— at least 
from a white point of view, didn't have a problem with lesbians at  
 
all. And I think the indigenous culture has some kind of tradition 
this way, from what I understand, but I'm not an expert.  
 Anyway, they loved their time. They lived four years there. And 
then Suzanne's partner wanted a divorce. She'd been playing 
around with other women and they came back and her partner 
decided Eugene was where she wanted to land. We became friends, 
Suzy  and I. Right away her partner took off. So Suzy  was in a 
financial crisis. We also then, as really good friends, put— I mean, I 
knew she was a lesbian, I'd been around them, they were friends of 
mine. But we put things together, put our households together in 
order for her to be able to survive, really. And I was making such 
shit pay that it was helpful for me, too. She substitute taught from 
January to June and then was offered a full time position in the 
Springfield School District. And by that time we were partners.  
Long:  And how did you become partners? How did that happen? What 
was your realization?  
Laskaya:  I was seeing a counselor at the time, still recovering from all of my 
childhood crap, and I was finally getting appropriate care really 
here in Eugene with people who really understood far better, or at 
least the person I saw did. But I think several people did, other 
women particularly women therapists who were doing a far better 
job than many places in the country dealing with incest survivors. I 
finally was getting really good care. Bonnie Tull was the person 
who was my counselor. She's no longer alive. She's like another  
 
mother to me. And she said to me, "Do you realize you're talking 
about Suzy  a lot?" And I just, "Yeah, yeah."  She actually said to me, 
“Do you realize what you're telling me?” I mean, over time she 
said, “Do you realize what you're telling me? I think you're in love 
with her.” It took a straight woman again, just like the straight guy 
who said, “I think you're a lesbian.” Then it started rolling 
around— Bonnie saying to me “I think you're in love with her.” I 
had no idea. But it was true that I would put my shoes on and walk 
around and they weren't tied  [laughs]. And that I was just kind of 
besotted. Suzy  and I were supposed to move in together the very 
next week, and I thought, Oh no, I’ve got to go tell her. Maybe she 
won't want to live with me?  
 I went over, I called her up and said, “I have something really 
serious to talk to you about.” And Suzy  thought that I was going to 
say that I couldn't live with her because she was a lesbian—that 
wasn’t it  at all. I went over and she said— I guess I kept 
stammering—and she said, finally, "Well, do you want a scotch?" 
So I said— we weren't big drinkers or anything, but I said, “Sure.” 
And she gave me a scotch and I sat down and the next thing I knew 
it was something like 4:00AM. And I had told her what Bonnie 
thought. And it turned out that Suzy  already had  a crush on me 
and had a crush  from the time she was taking my class. We spent 
the whole night just talking, talking, talking this through but in a 
very passionate way and realized we were in love with each other, 
and wasn't this wonderful?  
 
 And we'd already planned to room together and be roommates. 
Some of my stuff was at her place. It didn't take much for me to get 
the rest of the moving van. I  mean, it wasn't a moving van, but the 
rest of the car filled up  multiple times and  move in with her. It took 
a powerful “being-in-love” for me to recognize— and I knew then 
how different it was than just loving someone. Like, I love my 
brothers or that I loved John— this guy I was engaged to. Yes, I 
love them, but this was totally different. This was like totally 
different. I felt free! I felt like I was found! I felt like I'd found 
finally my home. The pictures of me before I knew— I was thirty-
one. And the pictures of me when I was thirty— people, when I'd 
walk around campus, when I was thirty-one, after I fell in love with 
Suzy, they didn't recognize me because [before that] I was so 
drawn and tight and fearful. And a lot of that was my history, but a 
certain amount of it probably was just sitting on who I was. I mean, 
not realizing that I had been sitting also on who I was. For me it 
was glorious.  
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit about Suzy  and what she— 
Laskaya:  I've talked an hour already. I'm sorry.  
Long:  It's okay. We have time. She was a school teacher. What did she 
teach? And where did  she teach?  
Laskaya:  She taught in the Springfield School District. First she taught at 
Briggs Middle School for just a few, maybe two years, and then 
moved over to Thurston Middle School. She had taught high school  
 
before that, but those were the jobs that were open and she loved 
American history. She taught the language arts/social studies unit 
together. It  was American history and language arts. Mostly what 
she taught was American history because she was a history person. 
That's what she loved. She kind of did literature around the side, 
but mostly it was American history. And she and I both I guess, 
well she is— let me just talk about her. She was terrified if our 
relationship had become known. When she had realized who she 
was and fell in love with another woman, I mean she had sold 
everything and gone halfway around the world in order to feel safe 
to live on Guam. When we were together, we had to be in order to 
protect her career— 
 She told me many times “If I can't teach I will die.” And I do really 
believe that would be true. I really believe that would have 
happened. She loved teaching. She was really good at it. She 
furthered issues of diversity in the way she taught American 
history, absolutely committed to doing that in  a white working 
class area. This was her talent. This is what she was committed to 
doing. So, we lived sort of mostly closeted, a little bit out. There 
were a few of her colleagues who once she felt like she could trust 
them, they did know us. Very few and only one who we ever 
really— we went to their house for dinner or they came to our 
house for dinner and the rest of them, I didn't accompany her.  
Raiskin:  This was for many years or for a period of time?  
 
Laskaya:  It was actually most of the time she was in— the number of people 
who knew about us grew and our social circle grew to include 
other lesbians and all the rest of them— well, almost all the rest of 
them were in Eugene, couples who were professional women, and 
who would understand the need to be careful with Suzy's name 
and information about her. It's not that everyone in Springfield was 
horrible, far from  it. But there—certainly in the ‘80s and the early 
‘90s—the really conservative kind of right politically tending folks 
were very outspoken and conducted what we thought of as witch 
hunts, especially in the schools.  
It was  a very stressful time. We could come over here to Eugene 
together. We went places together, but in Springfield where we 
would go grocery shopping or to the Fred Meyer over there to go to 
the garden center or whatever— I mean, she was constantly 
meeting kids or parents of kids or colleagues from her school when 
we would be even in Eugene. This happened also, and it was just 
what we did to protect her is— I would just go somewhere else in 
the store. And I would have to leave her as though— just it was 
constant, in order for her to feel safe enough that we didn't have to 
move somewhere else. And she didn't want to move anywhere else, 
because she'd already moved from Michigan to Guam and you 
couldn't at that time take your retirement with you. She had cashed 
out her retirement in Michigan, used it while they were living in 
Guam. She was having to rebuild retirement. She really didn't want  
 
to move in order to take care of herself when she was older, didn't 
want to leave.  
 Plus she was on the mission that she had for herself, teaching in a 
somewhat more diverse school district than most of Eugene. 
There's a visible and open and inviting and pretty powerful Native 
American community in Springfield. There were also quite a lot of 
Hispanic kids in Springfield. She had more diversity than she 
would have had at that time in Eugene. But the commitment that 
she had was to try to raise consciousness among white kids who 
were more likely to be raised with prejudice— 
Raiskin:  Do you think that most lesbian teachers in Springfield at the time 
were similarly closeted?  
Laskaya:  Oh yeah. They weren't there if they weren't. That probably takes 
me to the story about the PE teacher. At Thurston Middle there  was 
a period of time in which the OCA— 
Raiskin:  The Oregon Citizens Alliance?  
Laskaya:  Oregon Citizens Alliance, yeah, which was a kind of a 
fundamentalist right-wing activist kind of group. They were 
holding prayer vigils around the flagpole every morning when 
Suzy  would go in to teach. Her classroom was right— she could 
look right out her windows to the group and the flag pole and their 
prayers.  
Long:  Why were they allowed to be on the school grounds to do that?   
 
Laskaya:  It was before school. I don't know. I don't know. They just did it. 
They were sort of invading the space of the schools in Springfield 
and doing sit-ins and so on. And you should know there was also 
kind of— I don't know, it was a Christian  (including some 
fundamentalist congregations in Springfield) group that was also 
appearing sometimes to counteract them who actually took their 
faith a little more seriously and thought this was horrendous 
behavior.  
 There were also equally privileged and unprivileged, let's say, 
mostly unprivileged— Christian congregations over there who 
were really outspoken at the time and showing up and trying to 
oppose this and carrying signs of tolerance and whatever. But 
anyway, the OCA was, yeah, so  7:30 or 7:15 or whatever, every 
morning, they were for at least a year. Almost every morning they 
were holding their prayer vigils around  the flagpole. Now why? I 
kind of think they must've been doing this at many schools. But 
anyway, there was an incident that happened at Thurston Middle, 
where Suzy  was, with the PE teacher— with a women's PE teacher, 
the girl's PE teacher. And she wound up a target and outed and 
lived with her partner near Springfield out a ways in the country, 
but near Springfield.  And she wound up getting outed. And it was 
horrible. At the time, Suzy  even thought about marrying one of her 
male colleagues who was gay in order to have cover for both of 
them. What should I tell you about that? Anyway, what I want to 
say is the school district stepped in and this is now only the  
 
information I know. So, if you want to know about this, you need 
to pursue the PE teacher and try to get the story from the person 
who really experienced this. I only know this sort of third hand. I 
know it's a fact that the school district stepped in to protect her and 
they didn't put her on unpaid leave or anything like that. She kept 
getting her salary. They took her downtown to the main school 
district headquarters and she worked there waiting for this to blow 
over.  
 The other thing that happened that was good was the 
superintendent and the principal— and as far as I know, all the 
teachers in the school— felt very protective from then on of this 
male teacher who was still working. I don't know how many 
people knew about Suzy  because she was so frightened and kept 
very quiet. I suspect more people knew than she thought knew. But 
the reaction was protective. The Springfield School District 
deserves a medal in the history books, really. It's completely 
unknown, but  they absolutely moved to protect this woman from 
these right wing  witch hunters. However, the experience was really 
a lot for this woman and she wound up leaving teaching. I didn't 
know her closely. Suzy  knew her as a colleague and so I'm  telling 
you this kind of third-hand.  
Raiskin:  And if other teachers were closeted, she probably couldn't get the 
kind of support from them.  
Laskaya:  No. Right.   
 
Raiskin:  Which would be— 
Laskaya:  Yes. And she and the male teacher, I just don't know if— see, I'm 
saying this, I'm sorry, but it's just unethical. I just don't know 
whether it's okay to use his name or not. Anyway, he left teaching 
also and moved to Portland. That's the last I knew. But he and Suzy  
sheltered gay students, lesbian students who were in crisis and 
they were so terrified that that would out them. Yeah, it was tough. 
It was tough.  I think kids are now experiencing this in 
communities— who knows, maybe even inside some schools in the 
Eugene-Springfield area, but I think things are a lot better here than 
they used to be.  
 But when you go out to a rural community like Monroe or Crow, 
God only knows, those kids may  be, may be  dealing with the kinds 
of things that Springfield was and Eugene was even. But 
particularly if you're not in the elite areas of 4J. If you were out in 
Bethel or North Eugene things were probably sort of like they were 
in Springfield.   
Raiskin:  How did living in a closeted way to protect Suzy's job affect you 
emotionally in your job at the University of Oregon?  
Laskaya:  Well, I was not— I didn't hide the fact that I was  a lesbian, but I 
wasn't partaking in major activist roles. And that was to protect 
her, Suzy. None of my socializing could develop. I mean, because 
Suzy  was just too afraid, with my colleagues, except for Marilyn  
Farwell where Suzy  played matchmaker and introduced Kay King,  
 
Marilyn's current partner who was a school teacher in 4J and in the 
privileged part of 4J where things were a lot safer. Suzy  played 
yenta and introduced Kay to Marilyn, Marilyn  to Kay and they've 
been together now for, I don't know, twenty-five years or 
something. Marilyn  and Kay have been a part of our circle. We had 
a lesbian community. We kind of resented when people would talk 
about the lesbian community because actually there are many. And 
for us, our community included a woman who worked in 
accounting and then human resources and her partner who worked 
in like physical therapy.  
 Then Mary Brown, whose name I can use, she's unfortunately has 
died already. And her partner, whose name was Marilyn also. 
Mary Brown had a dream of owning a clothing shop for large 
women. And when she inherited money, when her mother died, 
she started the Impossible Dream, which was a clothes business 
downtown, right near the bus depot on Pearl Street. And Mary and 
her partner Marilyn, were really good friends of ours. And then we 
had some other friends. Suzy  belonged to a group. She wanted 
counseling. As a result of about a year's worth of counseling, she 
realized that the closeted, very isolated social life was really hard 
for her. Her counselor and several others together made several 
groups of professional lesbians where not everybody could be out 
in their work environment. And they became a close group and it's 
actually through that that we met Kay King. Through that we met  
 
Mary Brown and her partner, Marilyn, and quite a number of other 
people.  
 So, we did have a social network, but it wasn't connected to Suzy's 
school and it wasn't connected to the university, except 
tangentially.  
Raiskin:  So we've heard interviews about, as you say, many different 
communities in Eugene. What did you  see of other lesbian 
communities in Eugene?  
Laskaya:  We were envious of the women who could be really out and walk 
around proclaiming their identity. We loved it. We did once in a 
blue moon go to the Riv when it was still here and take a risk and 
go there.  
Long:  The gay bar.  
Laskaya:  Yeah. The gay bar. And usually, however we went up to Portland 
and we would go dancing and be able to dance together and feel 
safe. And that was wonderful. But we had to really actually leave 
town in order for Suzy  to feel like we could actually just be together 
in a public space like that.  
Long:  What was it like living in Springfield?  
Laskaya:  Oh, yeah.  
Long:  During the anti-gay measures.   
 
Laskaya:  Oh, right. Yeah. Well, our immediate neighbors who registered any 
position on Measure 9 in particular were supportive. We lived in a 
duplex and across the street there was this guy who owned the 
house. His older brother lived there and also his younger son, his 
son was probably in his twenties. The guy was probably, I don't 
know,  forty  or fifty. He ran the Texaco. One of the Texaco all-
service kind of stations where they have food inside as well. And 
what they did— absolutely working class, no college education I'm 
sure in that family. And what they did though was he pulled the 
food that had just expired off the shelves at his Texaco place and he 
brought it in a box and just left it on our doorstep.  
 And we didn't know who was doing this at first. And then I caught 
him and once in a while I'd run over and help him do something he 
would— they  unfortunately had drinking problems. Sometimes he 
was staggering around with a saw on. Anyway, they were quite the 
characters right across the street from us. But anyway, I caught him 
and I said, "Oh wait, you're the one leaving this food for us." 
Because we wound up with, I don't know, maybe three or four 
boxes.  Once a month, this box would come. And it had mustard 
and pickles and ketchup and some frozen food that now was 
almost— we had to throw it out because it was inedible, but 
because it had  defrosted. But there was all this stuff, butter, milk, 
all the stuff. And I couldn't figure out— so why somebody was 
leaving us this? And so I caught him and I said, “What are you  
 
doing?” He said, ”Well, you belong here. I want you to know you 
belong here.” 
Long:  That's sweet.  
Laskaya:  Yeah. He was the only neighbor who overtly did anything, but we 
knew that our neighbors probably knew about us and were 
protective. We felt protected in our little area where we lived. The 
people right next door and down the  street. It wasn't that great a 
neighborhood. There was a lot of drug dealing going on. But they 
didn't want to call attention to themselves either.  
Raiskin:  So, did you feel unable to participate publicly and protesting in 
Measure 9?  
Laskaya:  Yes. Not on campus,  I did on campus and I signed petitions and 
things like that. Suzy  felt like she couldn't sign petitions, but I 
didn't go up to the Capitol where I could wind up on television. I 
didn't go downtown where I could wind up on television. Yeah.  
 It was— you asked what it did. Well, it made my world very 
intense and small socially. I mean, compared to what it would have 
been if we had been living like a heterosexual couple. Or the 
women who we also knew who were in places where it was safe to 
be out for  both people could be out or individually, maybe they 
weren't with a couple, but a person felt safe being out.  
 Suzy's family had a huge amount of homophobia, huge.  I think 
some of the fear that she lived with and therefore that I respected  
 
and tried to shelter was maybe a little more fearful than what was 
actually required in the community to be safe. But if you love 
someone and if they really come first, then I sheltered her. She 
really came first.  
Long:  Meanwhile, you were teaching at the University of  Oregon. Can 
you tell us about the courses you've taught, some of the students 
you taught?  
Laskaya:  Yeah. Initially I was teaching writing, the freshman composition 
courses, and then right away started teaching world literature 
because I taught that at the Eastman School of Music when I was a 
grad student. I had done their yearlong lit world sequence.  
 And it took a while, but then finally— because when you're an 
instructor you get what's leftover, it took a long time, but 
eventually I got to teach women's literature. But my specialty is 
medieval literature and it took actually a longer time for me to be 
able to teach medieval literature than women's literature. I did not 
actually get to teach Chaucer—although I wrote a book on 
Chaucer—until after I had tenure . But I taught women's literature, I 
don't know, a good ten years before that, twelve  years before that, I 
would teach  the 300 level course. It's not a specialty, but I could 
certainly function as a generalist. And that was wonderful. And 
then at some point, and I didn't go back and check my records, so 
I'm sorry, I can't remember exactly when, but I offered a course, a  
 
400, 500 level course on lesbian literature and it was entitled 
“Lesbian Literature.” 
 And in my memory, it's the first course in the English Department, 
not around the campus, but in the English Department, it was the 
first course titled “Lesbian Literature.” 
Raiskin:  Do you remember what year that was?  
Laskaya:  I'm sorry, I don't, but Jennifer Bills was in my class. I had such a 
long waiting list. That was so wonderful. But then the students in 
the class— I had students who came up and said, “I can't believe 
I'm going to graduate from the U of O, and on my transcript will be 
a course that actually says—doesn’t  say women's lit—doesn't say 
feminist theory—it says ‘Lesbian Literature.’”  
 And I had several girls, young women who were aware of that. It 
hadn't occurred to me, that hadn't occurred to me, but they were so 
excited and so proud that that was going to be on their transcript. 
Women's Studies had gone into these areas way before, but the 
English Department— Marilyn  Farwell had been really the 
explorer, whatever, going into the territory of feminist literature 
and theory and also lesbian literature and theory. But my memory 
is that she didn't title her courses that, that she felt  that was too 
dangerous. And she might have offered a graduate course that had 
the title, but I don't think so.   
 
 I think she taught feminist— it was called feminist theory or 
feminist poetry or whatever. But you'd have to check that for the 
fact. But I do know that teaching that course was wonderful. And I 
had, I don't know, I think I had like, it was forty  students. It 
might've even been an overload of, I might've let in one or two over 
the load, but there was a long waiting list to get into it. And it was 
mostly women. They were not all lesbians,  but there were a lot. 
They were probably half the class, it was a delight. It was just a 
blast to teach. I loved it.  
Long:  Were you out to the students?  
Laskaya:  I was out the students. Yes. I think it was after Suzy  died. I was 
thinking maybe it was before, but I don't think I would have been 
out to the students and I was.  
 I talked about her at home as though she were alive. I didn't talk 
about my grief, but anyway, but it was really wonderful to teach. 
The students could hardly wait to come to the class. It's not your 
normal experience, especially when you teach medieval literature  
[laughs]. I do get the weirdos and I get the nerds and I get SCA 
kids. That's the Society for Creative Anachronism, kids who can 
hardly wait to take medieval literature I do get.  But to have the 
majority of people sitting there really excited and hardly can wait 
to come to class, that was a trip for me. That was just wonderful.   
 
 A good question is why didn't I get to teach that more? And I can't 
answer that for you. I know I asked for it. I asked for it, I asked for 
it, I asked for it.  
Raiskin:  And you had a waiting list when you did teach it?  
Laskaya:  Yes, I did. And I never got to teach that course again.  
Long:  Do you have a theory about why?  
Laskaya:  No, not really. I think it was just all a bunch of things. I think it was 
probably a whole web of things that occurred. One of them being 
the retirement of medievalists that opened up medieval offerings 
for me to be able to teach.  
 And department requirements that required students to take 
medieval. And I was also still running the composition program. I 
wasn't teaching very many classes, but I asked for it even when I 
stepped down and I've never gotten it, so I haven't asked for it 
recently. I kind of gave up. I did teach medieval women writers 
and I taught that probably three times, I think. And I'm going to be 
teaching that again this coming year and that's a really satisfying 
class to teach. It's women's literature. It's not specifically lesbian 
literature. There's a little bit of lesbian potential in some of the 
accounts that I teach and some of the letters and memoirs, but it's 
not the same as teaching more contemporary nineteenth  and 
twentieth  centuries. But mostly I taught mostly twentieth-century  
lesbian lit when I taught that course. Loved it.   
 
Long:  You mentioned Suzy’s death.  
Laskaya:  Yeah.  
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit about that?  
Laskaya:  Sure. Yeah, I’ve got to do this in a short time, so I'll be really brief 
about it  [looks at watch]. Suzy  was in a car accident in December, 
right when winter break started. And they gave her pain medicine 
because the steering wheel had cracked her sternum and it was 
pretty painful. They'd  given her some pain meds and pain meds 
have a tendency to block you up, it creates constipation. And 
anyway, so she was on those meds for maybe a week, maybe a little 
more than a week. It was New Year's Eve when she couldn't stand 
her abdominal pain and we went into the ER and they were like 
poo-pooing it and finally took X-rays and they could see that she 
had a bowel blockage.  
 And boy, yeah,  we went through what I would call a medical 
purgatory of discrimination. However, I would say you need to 
realize  when I'm talking about— it's a constellation of 
discriminations. Suzy  was very heavy, so there was a fat 
discrimination. She had gray hair, so there was an age 
discrimination. She was a woman, there was a very much a sexist 
component to what went on. We were very out and together as a 
couple with the medical people and there was a certain amount of 
homophobia, too. So what accounts for what? I don't know. It was 
all part of the blend that made hell for us. And anyway, the ER  
 
person thought she needed surgery right away. His name was Phil 
Johnson. He's one of the angels. Suzy  was out, he'd given her 
enough morphine that she was out and he took my hand and just 
kind of walked me over to look at the X-ray. 
 He showed me— he just treated us like we were a couple. 
Absolutely. And he said, “I'm really concerned about this. She's 
probably just got a bowel blockage. But I don't know. And I really 
think they should do surgery.” And the person covering for her 
primary care doctor who we talked to on the phone because she 
was on call— she was very disgusted that I even called that night 
and she just said, “Well, go to the store and get Senokot.” I had no 
idea what Senokot was. Suzy  had irritable bowel all of her life and 
so she had problems with diarrhea. She didn't have  problems with 
constipation. I've never had constipation. So I didn't know what 
Senokot  was and I didn’t  even know how to spell it. And she was 
so irritated with me on the phone.  
 We called a second time and then she suggested using some other 
over-the-counter thing. Anyway, she was really irritated that we 
were calling. It was New Year's Eve. She was at a party. There was 
no question, I could hear it in the background. But anyway, she 
finally came into the ER at around 4:00 in the morning, still all 
dressed in her party stuff. And I heard her talking with Phil 
Johnson, the ER doc, who was so great. And he just said, “She has 
to be admitted.” And this woman was saying, ”No, I'm not 
admitting her, just send her home, this is just constipation.  No, no,  
 
no, no,  no.” And Phil Johnson said “If you don't admit this woman 
to the hospital I'm going to go over your head and I'm going to go 
to the hospital administrator and tell them that you refused on my 
advice with these scans.” 
 He didn't know I could hear, but they're just curtains. I heard 
everything. And so she reluctantly— and then she came in acting 
all cheery and it took everything I had, at that moment— I didn't 
even know what we were facing, but not to hit her in the face. I was 
so mad. Anyway, Suzy  winds up  in the hospital, they wind up 
doing more imaging  and then all of a sudden  the pain was so 
horrendous, they couldn't keep control of it. They took her into 
emergency surgery and I had gone to dinner when I came back— 
so this was the next day.  I'd gone to dinner, when I came back, the 
nurses— nobody could tell me. I walked in her room where she 
had been admitted, was empty. There was no bed in it or anything. 
I'd left my phone number, they knew. I got nothing and they didn't 
even know where she was. The nurses didn't even know where she 
was. They looked it up and they said, ”Oh, she's in surgery.” I 
thought, What? “She's in surgery and so you're going to have to go 
and wait in the family surgery area.” I had no idea what was 
happening. I didn't know anything until around 3:00 in the 
morning that next morning, it was like a nine-hour surgery. And 
the surgeon came out.  
Long:  Which hospital was this at?   
 
Laskaya:  Well, at the time it was Sacred Heart because they hadn't built 
Riverbend yet. It was right over here at Sacred Heart.  
Long:  At the university area?  
Laskaya:  Yeah. I had no idea what was going on. But there was a nurse who 
was at the reception desk for surgical recovery who told me, "Oh, 
this is going to be a major surgery and you just need to be ready to 
wait a long time, and this is a critical— " But I got no information. I 
had no idea. And when the surgeon finally came out, she was 
furious. Not all in a bad way. But she did say— here's the prejudice 
against big people. She said, the first thing out of her mouth was, 
"What kind of diet do the two of you eat?"  
 And I said, "I don't know, kind of average, probably more 
vegetables and fruits than most people, probably less meat than 
most people, but we do eat meat." And she just said, "Well, what 
Suzanne has is colon cancer." And she drew a picture of how big 
the tumor was. And she said, "This has probably been growing in 
her for ten damn years." And she was mad and she was also mad at 
the gastroenterologists who kept doing imaging. She said, “The last 
thing  they should be doing— I took one look at her and I knew she 
needed surgery. I don't know why everybody dinked around, 
dinked around and she should have been in surgery that first night 
you guys came into the ER,” which is what Phil Johnson had said. 
And instead the gastroenterologists were all trying— filling her up 
with shit.   
 
 She said, “I don't know how that bowel held because it was in 
places like wet Kleenex”  and she'd had to clean it. So she was mad 
because it was a very hard surgery. Of course there was no prep 
because it was an emergency surgery and people had done the 
wrong thing. She was really outraged about that. She was initially 
sending her rage with her very  first comment toward me, but after 
that I knew it was really about the whole situation. She was 
diagnosed with stage three colon cancer and had a temporary 
colostomy. And because it was an emergency surgery, it's really 
hard to do things. You can't hold  the surgeon really responsible for 
that. However, another surgeon came in and took a look at Suzy's 
colostomy and said, "That's just a fucking hole."  
 And his bedside manner was so awful, but Suzy  took it personally 
and so she kept begging me to get a gun and let her shoot herself. 
She was so embarrassed by her weight. She was so humiliated by 
the things being said, that,  all of January— she was in the hospital 
for three weeks and then she came home and we knew she'd have 
to have another surgery to repair the emergency because it didn't 
work. And she also developed an abscess. Even the stitches were 
not holding. We were running the risk by the end of January that if 
she stood up her entire insides would just  fall on the floor, that's 
how bad it was. We had to put a kind of like a corset sort of thing 
on her to make sure that her insides stayed inside.  
 And she just kept begging me to get a gun and let her shoot herself: 
“Just get a gun, leave the house. I'm done with this.” And she was  
 
so humiliated by being— well, one, it was a bowel and so she felt 
like it was dirty and she was a super clean person. But then there 
were all these comments that the nursing staff, the doctors, the 
anesthesia, about her weight. I mean, it was constant and she was 
done. But fortunately she made through the second surgery and 
things got a little better, in terms of her attitude toward it. But we 
went to see the surgeon after the very beginning, so like a week 
after your surgery and you're finally let go home. We had to go 
back in that week, which was also about a week before the next 
surgery.  
 But anyway, we went back  and the same surgeon said, "I don't 
think I've ever treated a lesbian couple before." And she wanted 
information from us about how we lived and we were in such— it 
was just, Suzy  thought it was sweet. She liked her surgeon. I stayed 
out of it. I was infuriated. I thought our life shouldn't be under the 
microscope here. You should be talking about this. This is what 
we're paying you for, not for us to give you a diversity lesson. I  was 
infuriated, but Suzy  liked her. The second surgery was even worse 
in terms of how long it took. It was about twelve  hours. And that 
surgeon came in the night before the surgery to get Suzy’s 
permission on a piece of paper for the surgery. And she said, “You 
have about a fifty/fifty  chance to live through this surgery.” We 
knew  the night before the morning she's having the surgery.  
 So, we spent that time trying to just talk together because of course 
I thought, Well, it's cancer. This is  horrible. I was in shock. The  
 
surgeon had also said when we'd seen her “This is really rough 
right now, but we'll get you into chemo and I'm sure you'll have at 
least five years.” So, we weren't planning ahead for something 
disastrous. We weren't talking, we weren't reviewing, we weren't 
doing anything like that. That night however, when the surgeon 
deigned to tell us that she had a fifty/fifty  chance of dying in this 
second big surgery, we finally had some time, but it was also with 
such fury because she could have told us that two weeks before. 
And Suzy  was really upset because she had a will and we both did, 
that had left everything to each other.  
 But it was old, and more than seven years old. There was no way to 
do anything at that moment with only the night available to us. 
There was no way to call anybody to get someone to come and 
write something really quick or  to notarize or anything. There just 
was nothing.  I know Suzy  was really disturbed by that. She 
thought her family would come and just take everything, which I 
can tell you about if you want to hear about it because yes, they 
could. But my concern was really— I was just in shock and also 
furious that we  might have only that time. But she came out of the 
surgery. She had what are called retention sutures, which are 
extremely painful, they're metal.  
 It's metal thread that runs across you like a corset, except it goes 
through your skin. And the wound was left completely open to 
heal from the inside out. And it's far less likely, then, to create an 
infection. And it worked. But the retention sutures were so painful.  
 
She wanted me to get a  gun so she could kill herself to get away 
from the pain. Meantime, her sister came, her older sister came, 
when Suzy  was recovering from that surgery. Now we're in early 
February, mid-February. Her sister was going around the house 
saying, "So, is this yours or is this Suzy's? Is this yours or is this 
Suzy's?" And one of the things was our grandfather clock. We had 
bought a grandfather clock to mark our fifth-year anniversary. And 
I said, "  Well, that belongs to both of us."  
 And she said, "Well, I'm sure Suzy  paid for it, so it's going to come 
to my family." She also invited her daughter without ever asking 
me or asking Suzy  whether that was okay. Her daughter arrived, 
her older sister arrived in the morning, and then Jennifer arrived on 
a different flight  from California in the evening.  
 I had not been asked, neither had Suzy, and it was just— and it was 
a ploy. I don't blame Jennifer for this at all, but it was a ploy to 
make sure there was a child of Suzy's three nieces and one nephew 
that there'd be one  that might get stuff. Suzy's sister said, ”Well, if 
she doesn't make it, I'll take the cats.” At the time we had I think 
five cats and I said, well, they're our children. "Yeah, I know, but 
they're Suzy's." 
 And she just had absolutely no respect or care that the house was 
also mine and things in the house were also mine. Suzy  survived 
that surgery. The first thing she did when she was competent 
enough out from under a pain medicine enough that her signature  
 
wouldn't be challenged, she put together a will right away and had 
it notarized. That left everything to me and with an explicit clause 
that if anyone challenged any part of the will, they would get 
nothing. She did what she could to try to protect me. And it turned 
out it was needed because she died very suddenly from a 
pulmonary embolism on the twenty-second  of April.  
Long:  Of what year?  
Laskaya:  Two-thousand.  
Long:  And what was your experience after Suzy  died, planning the 
funeral?  
Laskaya:  Well, the medical thing really quick. The oncologist— Suzy  had 
developed a cough right around the first of April. Her younger 
sister, her younger sister came to visit with us and we had a 
wonderful time, very different visit. Anyway, she was coughing 
and it bothered me. By that time she'd already met the oncologist. 
She had a plan for chemo. She hadn't yet done the first chemo, but 
or maybe she had, it's kind of a blur. Anyway, we went in to see 
him and I'm talking about this coughing and he said, "Oh, she 
probably just has a cold." And I said, "No, it doesn't sound  like that. 
It doesn't act like that. This is not normal." I literally put my hands 
across the door to prevent him from leaving and said, "You need to 
pay attention." I don't know why.   
 
 It's just like a gut-knowing. And so he pulled out her— because  she 
coughed. They did some X-rays, just regular X-rays and he said, 
“Well, there are a couple of spots here that we're worried might be 
mets [metasteses], but I don't really see anything that we need to 
worry about.” He finally— he kind of talked to us and then he left 
like he was going to do something. And then we're sitting there, 
and we're sitting there, and we're sitting there, forty  minutes later I 
went out to ask the nurse  (this is in his office). "Is he coming back?" 
I mean, we weren't really through. And she said, "Oh no, he went 
to lunch." Well, it turns out that coughing was the signal that she 
was developing a blood clot and she had a pulmonary embolism 
and that's what killed her.  
 And when I went and read about them, I knew a large person over 
fifty,  had abdominal surgery— there's a high risk of pulmonary 
embolism. If I had been a fucking intern in the emergency room, I 
would have known that was a possibility. An X-ray won't show 
you. You have to do a different kind of imaging to see the 
pulmonary embolism. But that's like “Med School 101,” assholes! 
Anyway, I was so infuriated and it turned out there were other 
nurses who said that, her own primary care person who we adored, 
her regular doctor, who we adored, Phyllis Brown, who was her 
doctor, my doctor  here in town, said that. I was so infuriated that 
about a year after Suzy  died, I went to Portland to ask about a 
wrongful death suit. And the law firm up there was very nice and 
really great and very apologetic.   
 
 The case in California had happened where  a lesbian couple, one of 
them had gone for a run. They were in their fifties  and the woman 
had been attacked by dogs. But she was completely healthy, and 
there still wasn't legal marriage in California yet either. But the 
state had ruled that this partner  could still file a wrongful death 
claim and get payment from the dog owner and insurance. I 
thought because that had set a precedent that maybe I could do 
something because it was really clear from multiple medical people 
as well as what I knew happened that there were all sorts of things 
that had gone wrong in the way we had been treated. But in 
particular the pulmonary embolism—that, it was beyond 
negligence. It was refusing to do the work that one might do on 
someone to know that, oh my God, there's a clot there and if we 
had known early, you can do surgery.  
 It might be that it would have delayed her chemo and then other 
things would have happened. So it wasn't  like a healthy person. 
That's what  the law firm told me. They were very, very nice, but 
they said “If you were a heterosexual couple, even with this, we 
could easily get you two, three, $400,000 in payment for what 
happened even with the cancer, even with all these other things. 
But as the test case for a lesbian couple in Oregon, it's got to be 
somebody who's healthy where there's just no question, no ifs, ands 
or buts, no.” And the young man who was there with a woman 
who was talking to me he just put his head down on the table. He 
was so upset.   
 
 So, there is a place where the law screwed us over. And I really 
think the attitudes that we were encountering, like I said, I can't say 
it's only homophobia. It was really a combination of prejudices that 
I think led to her pulmonary embolism and sudden death. Well— 
Raiskin:  Did she die at home or in the  hospital?  
Laskaya:  No, in the hospital. Yeah. She was passing out at home and 
coughing and I called an ambulance and they came and took her. 
And they didn't tell me, even though I think they probably knew, I 
think they probably had enough medical knowledge to know kind 
of what was happening. They didn't alert me how much of an 
emergency it was. By the time I got—I just said I'd follow, because I 
needed to clean. She had vomited and I was cleaning up and I said, 
I'll come in the car, I'll be right there. Which I did. And when I 
walked into the ER, the doc on call, a different doc,  the ER doc on 
duty.  The first thing she said to me was, "Does Suzanne have an 
advanced directive?" And I just about fainted, because I thought 
she was having maybe a problem. By that time she'd had chemo 
and we were told that she might well wind up in the hospital 
because the chemo’s so hard. And I just thought it was a reaction to 
the chemo, but she was gone. She roused a tiny bit but was gone. I 
had to sign the paper for them to take her off life support.  
Raiskin:  How are you treated during this time?  
Laskaya:  Well, I think I've explained the medical people. There were nurses 
who I wanted to give a hug to who shrank away from me. I'm sure  
 
that was homophobia. And most of them were good. Most of them 
were good. On campus John Gage in that moment was an angel.  
Long:  And he was?  
Laskaya:  He was a department head.  
Long:  In English?  
Laskaya:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. And when Suzy  was first diagnosed,  he 
just said, okay, I'll take  care of the— I was running the comp 
program. It's huge, supervising 100 people, mostly grad students at 
the time. And running about 5,000 undergrads through the 
program every year. It was a really big program and he just said, 
“Don't worry about it. You take the time you need to be with Suzy  
and I will figure it out.” And so he once in a while he would send 
me an email or call and say this, “Just so you know, so you're not 
worried about the program, this is what I've got going and this is 
what I'm doing.” He checked in to give me a report about what was 
happening with my administrative position. And I had just 
returned spring term. I thought I could work and Suzy  would be 
doing chemo and she'd be mostly recovering and I could return to 
work.  
 So I was off one term, and I worked for only twenty  days or 
something like that  and then Suzy  died. I was blown out again and 
he just made it seamless and made sure that I also then could 
take— because I’d just gotten tenure. I'd gotten the notice about  
 
tenure two and a  half weeks before Suzy  died. And it still is 
somewhere in a box with all the medical stuff. Because I just threw 
it on the dining room table, which is where all of her dressings and 
everything— anyway,  I was entitled to a sabbatical and so he gave 
me, John did, he just arranged, boom, you have fall term off.  I 
returned and I taught, well, I actually had taught summer and then 
I taught winter and spring and then fall. And then I went into a 
horrible depression and had to take a medical leave for two terms.  
Raiskin:  Since  you weren't very out in your department, how did your 
colleagues treat you as a surviving spouse? Did they know?  
Laskaya:  They knew. They were invited to the memorial service and Suzy's 
faculty were invited. Marilyn and Kay really picked me up and 
took care of me when Suzy  died. And it's just kind of a blur.  
 But Suzy  had been raised a devout Catholic and  to the point that 
she hated it, and called herself a recovering Catholic. But she still 
had the belief, even though she  hated the institution. She wanted 
last rites. That's why we kept her alive on life support until a priest 
could get there. She was brain dead, but I tried  to do what she 
wanted. It seemed appropriate to have the memorial service at a 
Catholic place. And it turned out St. Jude here in Eugene at the 
time had this very, very liberal priest, Father John, who treated me 
like a spouse. And were you there Julee, at the memorial service?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].   
 
Laskaya:  We had the memorial service and Father John at the very end had 
me come up and he held my hand and said, ”Now, all of you are 
going to need to support Anne just like you would anyone else 
because she's lost her spouse.” That was kind of mind blowing to 
me. But actually, so you and Mary, Dick Stein and Carol had me 
over for a dinner. Those were the only overt things that happened. 
Neither medievalist came to the service or acknowledged Suzy’s  
death in any way.  
 I mean, tenured medievalists. Louise Bishop did, she was there. 
Mostly Marilyn and Kay took care of me. And then Robin Gage and 
John Gage took care of me. Having kind of coming and just taking 
me out of the house, taking me to their house, giving me dinner. 
John and Robin had me sleep over night multiple times. I could 
hardly function after Suzy  died. But I would say the majority of 
people— there were quite a lot of colleagues I had who came to the 
service and who left cards, but beyond that, no.  
 I don't know that— oh, I know, Bill Rossi and Lynn Rossi, they did 
a lot. It'd be really amiss— they  had lost their son, Joel, in the 
September before Suzy  died and they were wiped out. Of all the 
people, they  reached out as much, really as any of the other regular 
colleagues where I didn't have a more extensive friendship. 
Unbelievable. Maybe a year or two later when Bill Rossi and I were 
not— our offices are really close together. And for a couple of years 
we would pass each other in the hall and he would say “Suzanne,” 
and I would say “Joel,” because we were both so devastated. And  
 
part of the devastation Bill had, he said, "Nobody says Joel's name 
anymore." And then it occurred to me the same thing was 
happening. That wasn't a particular thing that I had gone on. So we 
tried to help each other.  
 He'll always be special. He and Lynn always special. I  can't believe 
in the midst of their grief that they reached out to me. And they did 
not know me as well as some other people in the department, but 
that was amazing to me. That was just amazing to me. Oh, I know. 
Okay. So, now that I'm getting my brain going.  Molly and George 
did. And so Molly Westling , George Wickes they had me over for 
dinner several times. Molly got me finally to go to the Y and start 
working out with her. Molly in particular tried to kind of pull me 
back into life.  And I wasn't real close with her, but she made herself 
close to me for a couple of years there.  And that was really sweet. 
But mostly it was Marilyn and Kay and Robin and John. Yeah.  
Long:  I want to skip ahead quite a bit.  
Laskaya:  It's already 1:00.  
Long:  It's okay.  
Laskaya:  You guys need lunch, don't you? Between— 
Raiskin:  No, we are fine. I want to just skip ahead. I know it's a big chunk. 
I'm going to skip ahead to— 
Laskaya:  Okay.   
 
Raiskin:  But I'm wondering about how you're thinking about your 
retirement.  
Laskaya:  Oh, God.  
Raiskin:  What you're thinking about your future and what you'd like to talk 
about. And then years since Suzy's death.  
Laskaya:  Well, I was very reclusive after Suzy  died. I moved from 
Springfield to Eugene. I found it painful to be in the house we had. 
And I'd built a beautiful garden.  I'd made a beautiful garden in the 
backyard for us. And it was painful to walk out there. When I 
moved over here to Eugene I couldn't hang any of the pictures. I 
couldn't have out, visually, even any of the things. The things hurt 
me. The grief was really deep.  
 I didn't create distraction enough for myself to avoid it. I think I 
would say I was pretty incapacitated outside of work by the grief 
for a good ten, eleven  years.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a  therapist in this time?  
Laskaya:  I did. I had one that was not really not helpful.  
Raiskin:  I was going to say, did they understand that this was a marriage?  
Laskaya:  Well, maybe, but I think just couldn't handle grief well. Might've 
been the same thing  if I had been straight.  I don't know. And then I 
wound up, found a better therapist and started to feel a lot better.  
 
Yeah. A better counselor or we clicked better or I don't know. So 
you want the nice ending.  
 Oh gosh. Well you see, I happen to meet Linda who had also lost 
her partner, Peggy, to a cancer and had been alone for a decade and 
or so, and I had been alone for eighteen  years. And then there's this 
person named Julee who's sitting right  here, who got us together 
for coffee because Linda  and I both dealing with major loss of a life 
partner whose life was just completely interwoven into who you 
are. It's not just a partnership, but it's like you're woven as cloth. So 
Linda had gone through something similar and we started talking 
and then Linda was assertive and asked me to go to a movie. And 
from there things started to evolve. So, thank you Julee [laughs]. 
 SI really  thought I would retire and probably move to Portland 
where I have two brothers I'm close to. My sister’s up there too, but 
she's a major problem and very homophobic. But my two brothers 
are there and I thought that's what would happen. That I would 
just move to Portland and that'd be it. Instead, I met Linda and now 
we've even gone to open houses and thought about buying a house 
together.  
 So there's a different future, completely unexpected. I really— there 
were two times I think in my eighteen years without Suzy  where 
somebody tried to, in all really good intentions, tried to hook me up 
with someone and I went out to dinner, but I just neither, just like, 
no. But Linda likes weird nerdy manuscripts and so what's a  
 
medievalist not to love, even though it's not medieval manuscripts. 
We have a lot in common— book people, idea people, history 
people, who both lost a part of themselves with the loss of a 
partner. It's been a blessing. I mean, I really couldn't imagine being 
with anyone. And part of that was because Suzy  is still alive for me. 
She'll always be alive for me. She'll always be part of who I am. I 
just can't imagine, I just couldn't imagine being with somebody 
who would not understand that. Linda understands that. How's 
that for an end?  
Raiskin:  And what do you see in your future? What do you want to do once 
you retire?  
Laskaya:  I would like to travel if I'm healthy  enough. I have now a chronic 
health condition. I have permanent bone marrow damage from 
chemo, so that's left me with a certain amount of disability. I don't 
know how much I can travel, but I want to do that as much as 
possible. One thing you learn from losing somebody who really is 
part of who you are is that the ordinary is sacred and beautiful. 
And so I just want more ordinary, sacred and beautiful.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Laskaya:  You're welcome.  
Raiskin:  Thank you.  
  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  