Long: This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Special Collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Jain Elliott  on July  30, 2019, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO  
Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Jain, please let us know if you agree 
to be recorded for this project and that you give your permission 
for the university to preserve and make available your recorded 
and transcribed interview.  
Elliott:  Yes, that's okay.   
Long: Great. Thank you. Why don't we begin with a basic question. Can 
you please tell us where you were born and when you were born, 
where you grew up in something about your early background.  
Elliott: Okay. I was born in 1949 in Brooklyn, New York, and I grew up on 
Long Island, where I lived with my mom and dad and my two 
younger sisters. I had a best friend from when I was three until she 
moved away when I was in third grade. And I was extremely 
heartbroken at that time. Corresponded with her through high 
school, lost touch, reconnected through Facebook a few years ago. 
She's extremely  an conservative grandmother in Arizona, but of 
course I still love her. The way I remember it is that I was bossy and 
my younger sister Betty was kind and sweet and popular and 
beautiful. And when she had a teacher who had been my teacher, 
she would report that the teachers that, "You're not like your sister, 
are you?" And then my other memory is that I was much closer to 
my dad than to my mom. 
 And then high school was a lot more fun for me after I connected 
with some older juvenile delinquents in the next town who had 
interesting political and cultural and musical ideas. And I started 
smoking marijuana and just mellowed out altogether and was 
friendlier to everybody. And then I got to go to Cornell through an 
experiment that  they were having with accepting people who did 
not have such fabulous grades but who had high scores and 
recommendations from their teachers. And they were, I'm sure, 
sorry later because it was all sex and drugs and politics for me. I  
thought I had died and gone to heaven. I had never been so 
surrounded by people who were smarter than me and who thought 
my being smart was not a handicap, was an interesting thing. I just 
thought it was so great.  
Raiskin: What year was that you went to college?  
Elliott:  Sixty-seven. 
Raiskin: And how old were you?  
Elliott:  I was eighteen  and I stayed there three years. And during that time 
I began to have some inklings of feminist theory and just felt 
horribly, horribly guilty that I thought it was all— because my dad 
had an interesting career and was an interesting person, I liked him 
better. And because my mom stayed home and drank and played 
bridge, she was boring and I didn't like her as much and I just 
thought that was so unfair. But that was how I felt. And after my 
third year in Ithaca, I came to San Francisco just for the summer 
and I never went back. I just thought it was so, so great. And my— 
Raiskin: How did you  get to San Francisco and who did you go with?  
Elliott:  I hitchhiked. Actually no, I got a ride from a ride board as far as 
Denver. And I hitchhiked from there and the ride I got was [in] a 
Volkswagen that picked up four of us. The other three I didn't 
know and they were guys. So I got the seat and they had to crouch 
in the back where the seats had been removed. And as we came 
over the Donner pass at dawn, the driver woke us all up and said,  
“This is it. We're in California now” and I start crying, "Oh 
California, this so great." And he left us in Sacramento. And I 
hitchhiked from there into the city and— 
Long: Can I interrupt and ask you, why did you want to go to San 
Francisco?  
Elliott:  Well, I had heard that the streets were paved with hashish and 
there was a rock and roll band at every corner. That was the center 
of my cultural world. I thought that was where it was all going to 
be. And shortly after that, I had had a boyfriend in Ithaca who had 
just graduated and I had moved him into my room at the co-op, or 
the plan was that he was going to move into my room at the co-op 
that I had lived in and try and get a band together. But just before 
that his parents arrived and said, "We've found out about the drugs 
and everything, we're going to get you some residential treatment." 
And he took his guitars and went down the back stairs and got on a 
bus and came out to San Francisco to join me, which, I hadn't 
planned on settling down, but he couldn't— 
 Anyway, so we got an apartment. And the people who lived 
upstairs in the apartment— no, we lived upstairs. People that lived 
downstairs in this gorgeous Victorian  in the Castro that, we had the 
top floor with seven bedrooms. Well, what hippies called 
bedrooms, which were parlors that were separated by sliding doors 
and downstairs lived some people that I made friends with right 
away. You could look through the window and see that they were  
smoking dope. So I knocked on the door and said, “So how's the 
landlady? We’re going to be renting upstairs.”   
And then he had been a classical radio announcer back in his 
hometown in the summer. So, he managed to get a job at a classical 
radio station that was so poor that they didn't have a studio in 
town. They had a little studio at the base of their transmitter on 
Mount Tamalpais.  
 He needed a car to get up there. So my mom loaned us $600 and we 
bought a used Volkswagen and he drove up there every day, but 
the car kept getting stolen and then we'd find it a few blocks away. 
We needed to get car insurance. We had had the idea that in  
California you didn't need car insurance but now we were going to 
get car insurance. It was very expensive to get car insurance for an 
unmarried male under twenty-five so we decided we'd get 
married. So I wrote away to an ad in the back of Rolling Stone  and 
got ordained as a minister of the Universal Life Church. And at that 
time we had been joined  by my high school buddy Billy Keim  and I 
ordained him and he was the officiating clergy person and we went 
downstairs and got the folks from downstairs to come up and be 
witnesses.  
 And Margaret kept saying, “Are you sure you want to do this?” 
And I said, “Sign here lady.” And we got married and then I 
started spending more and more time with Tom and Margaret from 
downstairs. And let's see, Tom and Margaret decided that they 
were really not heterosexuals and Margaret and I worked  
downtown and she took a class on how to fix her car. And Suzanne 
Shanbaum, I don't know if you remember her—Berkeley Women’s 
Music Collective,  was teaching that class and they fell in love and 
that was so sweet. And then they just decided, let's see, they moved 
to Oakland and— no, no. Tom moved out for a while and he was 
living in a sort of SRO and across the hall from him was a gal 
named Cheryl who he got to be close friends with. And then Cheryl 
and her boyfriend and Tom and Margaret moved to Oakland.  
 Then Cheryl and I started working at the new San Francisco 
Women's Switchboard and that was really  fun.  
Raiskin:  What was that?  
Elliott:  Well, it was a switchboard. People would call up and we would 
answer the phone and they'd say, “What are some resources that— 
I need a counselor— I need to move out— I need a job— I need just 
to talk to somebody— “ It was great.  
Long: So what, can you remind us again what year it was that you moved 
to San Francisco?  
Elliott:  Certainly. 1971. The year that I should have graduated from 
Cornell, instead I  moved there. So we got married, we both worked 
downtown.  
Raiskin: How many people worked at the switchboard?  
Elliott:  Oh, there were lots of us. But we got a  grant to update the files. 
And that was me and a gal named Laurie, and she did all the  
counselors and I did everything else because at that time I felt very 
strongly that, why should anybody make money out of— I mean 
we should be talking to the gals in our CR group. I mean that was 
just a strange thing.  
Long: CR, consciousness-raising?  
Elliott:  Consciousness-raising, Uh-huh [affirmative].  
Long:  OK. By any chance was Tee Corinne  there at that time?  
Elliott:  Probably, but I didn't, I— 
Long: Because  she worked on a switchboard too, but I think it was a sex 
education  switchboard. So maybe a different switchboard.  
Elliott:  Maybe so, I didn't remember her. And if she had been there when I 
updated the files, I probably would've remembered her. But while I 
was updating the files, there were so many— I made money in 
focus groups. Advertisers would want five housewives to come in 
and talk about salsa and I would be one of them and the next four 
women who called and wanted a job, off we'd go. It was a fat, fat 
time. I had had a job, I worked in the back office of a stock 
brokerage and Margaret worked at Crocker Bank.  
 We would have lunch together every day. And then the stock 
brokerage went out of business. This was after they moved. And 
everybody else was applying for a job at another stock brokerage. 
And so I went down there with them, ha, ha. Just for fun. And I got 
hired and it wasn't the same. They wouldn't let me come in early.  
They wanted me to be more— play by their rules. And so I quit. 
And that meant I couldn't get unemployment insurance. So I went 
into a little depression. I mean I was very unhappy and a friend of a 
friend from back in New York took me down to her pottery studio 
around the corner, just like they say— people who are having 
mental problems if you make pots, it really, really helps. And I 
made pots and made pots and made pots and I sold pots and I got 
all these little jobs through the switchboard.  
 So many jobs through the switchboard. The first Monday of every 
month I went down and did the books  for somebody. I had all 
these part-time jobs. Laurie, the gal who updated the counselors, 
got us a job painting some large co-op, nonprofit institution. 
Russell was still at the radio station. Actually, no. At that point 
Russell was not, yeah, no he wasn't. He stayed up all night playing 
his guitar and then he'd go work the radio station.  
Raiskin: So did you find San Francisco affordable at the time?  
Elliott:  Easily. We had a seven-room flat and we had guests, some of them 
paid a little rent. One of the things I did was we were the home 
base of a food conspiracy and people would come and give us their 
money and their food stamps and we would put in our food 
stamps and take the money out and somebody would go shopping 
and get whatever was cheap and fresh and  then people would 
come and pick it all up and we would trade. I baked bread every 
week and I would trade my bread for somebody else's butter.   
Raiskin:  A lot of bartering.  
Elliott:  It was just, it was so fat, so different. Skipping ahead many 
decades, I live with a young person now and it's heartbreaking to 
think of how easy it was for us and how hard it is for her.  
Raiskin: How long were you in San Francisco?  
Elliott:  Well, Tom and Margaret moved to Eugene and they— 
Long: Can you tell us their last name?  
Elliott:  Cormier  . 
Long: Cormier. 
Elliott:  And actually they were on their way to Bellingham and I kept 
saying, “Don’t go, don’t go.” And she kept saying, well, you know 
you came here but we're from here, we have to go somewhere. You 
can't always stay where you were from. And so they started to go 
to Bellingham but their car broke down in Chico and some friends 
from Eugene came and picked them up and they landed in Eugene. 
Their friends were staying with Charlie and Debbie Glass who had, 
and I'm sure you've  heard this whole story.  
Long: Please tell us— 
Raiskin: Not from your point of view.  
Elliott:  The way I remember it is possibly both of them, possibly only 
Debbie, was working for an herb company and Debbie drew some  
labels and said, “Aren't these beautiful labels? Wouldn't you like to 
use these labels?” And they said, “No, they're not such great 
labels.” And then she found out that they were using her labels and 
she sued them and got a little money. And then she and Charlie 
started a little herb company using her beautiful labels. They were 
fervent vegetarians, and in those days all cheese was curdled with 
rennet and they didn't want to get cheese curdled with rennet. So 
they got in touch with Rogue River Valley Creamery and they said, 
“Well yeah, we can make you a vat of cheese.” 
 And they said, “Well, okay, we've got this herb distributorship, 
maybe we can distribute some cheese, I'll make some beautiful 
labels.” And when Tom and Margaret got there, that's what they 
were doing. And they had also grown a lot of marijuana the year 
before. So Tom and Margaret were always happy to smoke 
somebody else's marijuana and sit around and put labels on the 
herbs and labels on the cheese.  
 And Margaret, always happy to help somebody do something that 
they're doing and do it better. And after a while they were a little 
collective of the four of them and then two of their other friends. 
And during that time when I was working at the stock brokerage, 
one of Margaret's friends was the— there's no cell phones then. 
Long distance phones were incredibly expensive. But one of 
Margaret's friends worked at the branch office of my stock  
brokerage in Eugene, sometimes we would send messages back  
and forth that way and sometimes they would come and visit us. 
And once we went to visit them.  
 I didn't drive at that point. Russell drove the whole way and I was 
like, "Oh, this is so scary. Oh, the Siskiyous! Oh, please slow down!" 
And he was  like, eh. And we got there and I just thought it was the 
greatest— everybody doing everything together, they were 
sleeping with each other. There were adding machines everywhere. 
And Russell thought it was creepy.  
 And then, I picked up a copy of Diet for a Small Planet  and when we 
got back to Eugene, I said, “Russell, we're going to do just some 
different things now. We're going to be vegetarians. I'm going to be 
a vegetarian and I'm only going to cook every other night. And the 
other night that I don't cook, you can either cook or not.” And he 
argued for quite a while and then he said, “Okay”  and that's what 
we did. And then when we had guests, we had tons of guests, we 
would cook the first two nights and then the guests were supposed 
to cook the third night and we would help them. It was fun. We 
were so ignorant. We went to the store and got a slab of tofu and 
we were trying to eat the tofu on a sandwich.  
Long: May I ask, can you describe when you were down in the Bay Area, 
living with Russell, tell us about the division of labor in your 
relationship or how your relationship worked because you're 
talking about your changing ideas about gender and you tell us 
more about your relationship.   
Elliott:  Well, after I brought this book in, we did cook every other night. 
He did do that. Let's see, we had one foam mattress in the— so we 
moved out of the huge place  after a while. Then we moved into a 
smaller place that had only a bedroom and a living room and a 
kitchen. And there was a large foam mattress in the bedroom and a 
large foam mattress in the living room covered with an India print. 
And cleaning consisted of taking the India print off the one in the 
living room and shaking it out afterwards and tucking it in nice 
and neat afterwards. That was cleaning.  I don't remember which of 
us did that more, but there wasn't a whole lot of household labor. 
He played guitar, which I enjoyed, and we took turns reading to 
each other in the evenings while I sewed patches on our pants 
when they wore out.  
 And we had really separate lives. When we had meetings of the 
switchboard gals at my house, people would joke that they just 
pretended Russell was the lamp because he didn't say anything. He 
stayed up all night playing his guitar and I think he might've left 
the radio station by then because how could he have got— yeah, it's 
hard to remember.  
Raiskin:  When you came to Eugene,  what did it look like to you? What did 
you think about it?  
Elliott:  Let me tell you a funny story about how I came to Eugene. Mostly 
Tom came to visit us because he wanted to go to the gay bars and 
one time he came with Margaret's girlfriend Gabriel, a fascinating 
gal. And after they went back to Eugene, I guess we must have  
talked on the phone even though it was expensive, because after a 
phone call Russell seemed upset and I knew he wasn't as close to 
my friends in Eugene as I was and I was concerned about that, but 
he said “No, no.” The problem was he had fallen in love with 
Gabriel  and written her a letter and hadn't heard and wondered 
what ever happened to the letter. So I got back on the phone and I 
said, “Where's this letter? Is there a letter? And they said, "Oh right. 
You know, there was a letter, we put it in Margaret's box at 
Starflower.  He sent it to  Starflower.” “Well,  get the letter out, give it 
to Gabriel.” Because I was just— as a fervent codependent, I 
wanted to model the behavior that I expected him to emulate the 
next time I got a crush on somebody else, because when I had 
gotten crushes on other people he went, "Oh no, no, this is so 
terrible, we have to— " I was like, "You know I'm going to support 
you. This is going to be interesting."  
 He said, "No, no, no. Just as I found it not supportable when you 
were  attracted to other people, what I want to do now  is get a 
divorce and cleave only unto her." And I said, "That's kind of 
weird." But, okay. So I moved to Eugene. And Gabriel  of course 
thought it was the most hilarious thing she'd ever heard of. And 
she also suggested to me kindly that possibly he had been looking 
for a way to get out of the relationship and declaring that he was in 
love with someone who lived 600 miles away, was committed to 
somebody else and was a lesbian, might be a good way to do it. 
That was it for Russell for many, many decades.   
 And I moved in with Tom and Margaret and Gabriel—Gabriel  had 
another apartment but she wasn't there very much—and Gabriel's 
daughter, Cere, and her dog Brother and Tom's dog Heya and 
some cats. I not only moved in with them but I started working at 
Starflower. They give me a home and a job and a community. And I 
thought, Well, here I am, I'm going to be working with all these 
fabulous lesbians. Maybe I'll be a lesbian, too. Let's just see what 
happens. Because there were, at that time, Nina Robbins was 
working there and Connie Newman was working— these were  
wonderful, wonderful women, but boy was I surprised.  
 Well there had been some precursors. There had been a time when 
Margaret and I were going to take some acid. And then Tom came 
home and had been gone for several days and was already 
tripping. So he was going to take some acid too, and Russell was 
going to drive us around. And so he drove  us over to this hill that 
we were going to climb and we climbed this hill and they were 
talking about all the mustard plants. And I was like, “Ooh, I 
thought mustard seeds only grew in the Holy Land. Oh, this is the 
Holy Land.  Whoa.” And then we got up to  where we were sitting 
around talking.  
 And Margaret told me that she had feelings for me. And I was like, 
"Oh, well we must be getting to  see what the guys are doing or else 
they'll be worrying." And as I look back on that later, I was 
chagrined. Anyway, I decided that I realized that she was the one 
and I was just so happy. I was like, "Oh, this is just the most  
wonderful— here I am. Finally. It's so great."  Yeah. I look back at 
my life. I— everything seemed to point that way. “Margaret,” I 
said. “Goodnes s!” 
 And she said, “Well, actually, of course, you're my dear friend, I'll 
always love you. But I am with Gabriel  now and I don't really feel 
that way anymore.” And I thought, Well, I'll just talk her into it. 
Russell didn't think I was so great at first and then he did. And I'll 
just be the hardest worker at Starflower that ever was, totally 
ignoring the fact that, Gabriel is someone who could sit and watch 
seven people load a truck, and— buff her fingernails. I became the 
hardest worker that ever was and it was really hard. I had a big old 
broken heart.  
Raiskin: Were you attracted to other women at Starflower ? 
Elliott:  Yeah. But not like that. I thought there were other women who 
were really great, but she was the one and it seemed to me that all 
the times  I had ever been in relationships with guys and they 
hadn't liked me as much as I liked them, there was a little voice in 
the back of my head saying, well, what does he know? And it 
seemed to me that she really knew, that she just knew all about me 
and knew that I wasn't good enough. And so I was really sad and 
everybody— the way I remember it, surely there were lots of 
people  saying “When will she get over this?” But the way I 
remember it, everybody was so sweet to me about it and tried to 
cheer me up and distract me. And I tried to be cheered up and 
distracted. But then there  she’d be. One time we were going to go  
on a trucking run together. Ooh, I was so excited. But then she said, 
“It's going to be really icy and  snowy. Christine has more 
experience and she's a mechanic. Is that okay if I go with 
Christine?” 
 I said, “Of course it’s okay.”  And they didn't come back. It was 
really icy snowy. And they stopped at Christine's land in Williams 
for a few days and then they finally came back. I was so glad to see 
them and I invited them over. I cooked, I was making cream of 
mushroom soup and I invited Nina over for dinner. And Christine 
said, “Oh, can I come too?” I said, “Sure.” We were in the kitchen 
and there was a big disagreement going on in the other room. And 
I said, "What's going on?" And Nina said, "Well, Gabriel  really 
didn't like it that they started this little affair in Williams and then 
you invited her home for dinner. And I said, "What?" I was just 
bawling my eyes out. So that went on for quite a while until— 
Raiskin: How did all of these shifting relationships play out at Starflower?  
Elliott:  Well, more or less it sometimes affected the business a little bit. 
People were signed up to go on a trucking ride together and then it 
turns out they weren't getting along so good. And other times it 
was, from my point of view it seemed like it was so great. The 
people just wanted to live their lives in this very focused way. We 
were showing the world what we could do. It was so great.  
Raiskin: How many people were working at Starflower?   
Elliott:  Well, it grew and grew. We were constantly hiring because our 
business grew and grew. I mean it wasn't just cheese and herbs. It 
was juice and rice and a lot of stuff from Westbrae  in the Bay area, 
pasta, and then we went out to Idaho to get beans. We were 
constantly hiring and I'm sure we hired many of the people that 
you've interviewed.  
Long: Could we back up for second. Can you talk about the actual 
founding of Starflower? You did talk about Charlie and Debbie 
Glass. They had an herb company and then the distribution of the 
herbs— 
Elliott:  And cheese.  
Long: —and the cheese. When did Margaret and Tom— did they— 
Elliott:  Nineteen seventy-two.  
Long: Okay. Did they found Starflower with Charlie and Debbie or was it 
just Margaret and Tom?  
Elliott:  No, it was definitely Charlie and Debbie and then two other 
people, friends of Charlie and Debbie who are, let's see, there was 
one, Mary Lawless? Yeah. There's another person whose name I 
forget. And then by the time I got there, Connie and Nina and I 
think Breeze was there. Debra Gavlak was there. And when they 
hired me, they hired Christine at the same time. Christine Frazer. 
And yeah, and then, we just hired and hired. 
Raiskin: And what was the business model?   
Elliott:  We were a collective. Everybody did everything. Everybody. I was 
one of the first people who— I did a lot of bookkeeping because I 
had done that in San Francisco. I would sit at the same place at the 
huge table every day. And there was one adding machine that I  
liked to have nearby, and a pencil that I liked to have near me. It 
was like that was— other people were more communistic about the 
tools of our trade than I started being. When I first got there, there 
was a thing called the heavy wheel.  
 They had all the names around it and they'd turn the dial every day 
and that person was the heavy that day. And if somebody said, "I 
want to talk to the person in charge," or whose turn is it to clean the 
bathroom or whatever nobody wanted to do, that person had to do 
it that day. But I don't remember it being used by the time I got 
there. I saw it. And I remember it being referred to.  
Raiskin: I wonder where that wheel is.  
Elliott:  Yeah. There was also a journal called As the Star Shines  that people 
would write, you know, "Don't deliver to the Canyonville  Co-op 
anymore, their checks keep bouncing.” Or, “Last night I dreamed 
that…" or just whatever, and that disappeared, too. Oh, everyone is 
heartbroken over the disappearance of that.  
Long: Who chose the name Starflower?  
Elliott:  Oh, Debbie.  
Long: Debbie did?   
Elliott:  Yeah. And she drew beautiful— and we don't know where she is 
now. We know where Charlie is but I don't know where Debbie is.  
Long: Where are the Cormiers? 
Elliott:  Tom died of AIDS, in, uh, oh, we’ve got that in here [looks at 
notes]. And Margaret, they— I loved him so much and he was not 
someone who was good with money. A few years after I got there, 
he met a guy in San Francisco, Joe Brown, who came up and 
worked with us, who I also loved so much, and Joe was very good 
with money and he used to say, "You know, I think what happens 
is some good fairy just comes and takes money out of Tom's 
pockets every night and puts money in my pocket every night." 
When they moved to Portland, Tom got a really good job working 
for OHSU and Joe worked for a food co-op and made a third of 
what Tom made. And he always had money and Tom never had 
money. But after he died, amazingly enough, Margaret  was able to 
collect on his social security which it was just the greatest thing. He 
would've loved that.  
 Oh, she lives in Weaverville  now, Weaverville, California. She 
partnered with a gal who was a therapist here in town, Dorothy 
Knowles  and they moved to Corvallis for quite a while and then 
moved to Portland. It was such a relief when they moved to 
Corvallis that I wasn't going to be running into her when I thought 
I was having a good time  and realize that I was actually a miserable 
reject. And then they moved to Portland for quite a while and then 
they moved to California and adopted four kids, a sibling group.  
Skipping way, way ahead, Cheryl, remember Cheryl? At the 
women's switchboard?  
Raiskin: Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Elliott:  She changed her name to Snake and we became very, very close. 
We did a lot of camping. She lived in the  Bay Area but she came up 
here a lot and we did a lot of camping and we went to Nepal 
together and oh, it was so great. And the years went by and the 
years went by and about three or four years ago, she died as she 
would have wished, hiking. She got lost hiking in Arizona and 
died. And I told Cere, Gabriel's daughter, who lives in [near] 
Denver now, and she told Margaret and Margaret called me and 
suggested that I stop to see her on my way down to the memorial. 
And Judy Goldstein, who I'm sure you've interviewed and my 
housemate Sue and I did that. Not everyone has this reaction to 
menopause, but I no longer have the hormones that give me 
romantic or sexual or jealous feelings so being with her now, I still 
of course love her deeply, deeply, but I no longer  have the  jealous 
feelings. It was just wonderful to reconnect. I'd like to email her at 
least once a month but we email about once or twice a year.  
 I had another visit with my friend Hilary who I'm also very fond of 
just before my grandson was born. We went down  for the Bill 
Graham exhibit in San Francisco and we stopped at my daughter-
in-law's [parents’] house to pick up a family rocking chair in 
Sacramento, which would fit in Hillary's large vehicle. And then on 
the way back, we came up the coast and she got to meet Margaret  
which was important to me. Margaret got to meet her, which was 
important to me. And that was another really, really good time.  
 But back here in the ‘70s, they had a cattle truck that they did their 
deliveries in, Eugene deliveries and they went down to southern 
Oregon to pick up the vat of cheese, which would be in twenty  
pound blocks and taken into Grants Pass and get some of it cut up 
into one pound chunks, maybe some five pound or half pound, I 
don't remember, and with the beautiful labels and they  delivered— 
actually, the morning after I got here I did Portland deliveries with 
Charlie  because fewer people wanted to go trucking with Charlie 
than with the gals so I got to do it. And I was so impressed that he 
could drive a truck at the same time as he could eat his dinner with 
chopsticks, out of a bowl. I thought, "Man, that was something."  
 And then we started going to Eastern Oregon and because we were 
picking up food in Chico we delivered in Mount Shasta and the co-
ops in Chico. And then after a while we added the coast run and it 
was always a thing about there was never a back haul from the 
coast, it was hard to pay. Finally we slapped a little per pound 
delivery charge on the coast run.  
Raiskin: What was your daily life, when you're working at Starflower and 
there were other collectives around, what was your interaction with 
them? What can you tell us about those other collectives?  
Elliott:  The first many years I really didn't know anybody who didn't work 
at Starflower or wasn't lovers with somebody  who worked at  
Starflower. My social life was pretty much confined exclusively to 
Starflower. It was still my endeavor  to work harder than anybody 
else so that Margaret would love me and I worked really hard. I 
eventually sort of specialized more in trucking and bookkeeping 
and one was a refreshment from the other. One was outdoors, 
physical, beautiful, beautiful Oregon, seeing our customers who 
were so fond of us and physically tiring. And the other was not 
physically taxing but mentally taxing. And so I worked about thirty  
hours a week at each of these endeavors and I remember being 
annoyed when the weekend came because although I of course still 
went in, or if I wasn't on a trucking run I wasn't as annoyed, but if I 
was in town, I still went in. But there were fewer people there to 
check things out with, "Did you really load this? What did this 
customer say?" Because they were all doing something else.  
Raiskin: It's interesting because people talk about the freedom of that time 
of being able to survive on only working half time and then being 
involved in some creative endeavor. You're working double time—  
Elliott:  This was my creative endeavor, yeah, pretty much. Margaret and  I 
once took a class on making Pysansky  Easter eggs that are wax 
resistant, it was so beautiful. We were doing that, coming home at 
night and sitting around with Tom and Gabriel  and making those 
Easter eggs.  Especially—  
Long: Can you describe for us just a typical day at Starflower?   
Elliott:  If you're a warehouse worker  you'd be getting these handwritten 
order forms and getting things set up for a trucking run. And if it 
was Monday night, of course you'd be at the Starflower meeting 
which went on for hours because every business decision was 
being made collectively. If you were loading a run that was going 
out the next morning, you could leave a little early so you could 
load that run and if you were driving that run, you could leave a 
little early, not as early as the loaders, but a little early. But 
everybody else was sitting there smoking cigarettes. And then after 
a while, we had a rule that there was only going to be one cigarette 
at a time until the meeting was done.  
 And I took my turn facilitating those meetings. I'm now involved 
with Community Village at the Oregon  Country Fair which makes 
decisions collectively and Sue will take her turn facilitating the 
meetings that I never, never, never, never, will. I just won't do it. 
And I took my turn taking notes and I won't do that either. I do 
take minutes for one of the committees of the Oregon  Country Fair, 
the LUMP—Land Use Management Planning Committee and I 
took minutes when I was on the CALC  board, the Community 
Alliance of Lane County. But at other meetings I'm just, I'm not 
very helpful, I work on my list of things to do. When I was teaching 
I was graded  spelling tests.  
 Let's see, if you were a bookkeeper, you would come in and I have 
stronger memories of later when we had moved to our new 
warehouse when we had computerized some of our bookkeeping,  
coming in, printing off a sheet of all the people that we owed 
money to and then trying to decide of those people, which ones I 
might risk writing a check to that might not bounce, influenced by 
how far away the supplier's bank was and what the purchasers 
were begging me to pay so that they could get an order in. That 
was a really hard time.  
Long: Where was, excuse me, where was Starflower located first?  
Elliott:  Okay, when Russell and I came to visit, it was on Willamette Street 
near Eighteenth  and by the time I— let's see, the collective house 
was there and they had some warehouse space rented in what is 
now across Fifth from the 5th Street  Public Market in the building 
that— things have gone in and out of that building so fast. Across 
Fifth, from the 5th Street  Public Market. And then by the time I got 
here at work, we were at 385 Lawrence, which is near the Planing 
Mill near REI, in which at this time, is empty except for one 
sculptor who's got a little part of the warehouse.  
 Three eighty-five [385] Lawrence  had, probably still has, a huge 
walk-in cooler that— I wonder how we did this. At one point we 
sunk a safe into the cement floor for our money and the cooler has a 
door that opens out onto Lawrence that we could  back the trucks 
up to and it has wooden floors. So, we couldn't use a mechanical 
forklift, we could only use  hand pulled forks [pallet jacks] and in 
order to stack the grain, some strong young dyke would be 
crouching on top of a four-tie of bags and others of us would be 
pushing the bags up and she'd be pulling them up and we'd be  
stacking up there. We were so strong, it was real awesome. Every 
time I'm shopping at the Red Barn, and I still buy in bulk, it's just I 
would never consider not buying in bulk, and they have my box of 
juice and they say, "Would you like some help out with that?" And 
I say, "Yes." And I think of those days. Argh!  
 There was a co-op in Bend that you had to deliver up a fire escape 
out back and I could carry a fifty pound bag of rice up that fire  
escape. If I had to, I could carry a seventy-five pound bag of beans 
up and boy, those fifty pound bag rice  were so much easier when I 
was young. Not when I first got here. When I first got here and I'd 
go out on deliveries it took a while. Wooden floors and we had an 
upstairs where we kept lighter things because— I think, I'm trying 
to remember, I had worked as a carpenter's assistant a little bit in 
San Francisco and when I first got here that was one of the things 
they hired me for and they wanted a slide coming down from the 
top floor. I said, "Well, I can do that." And I did. I needed Christine 
to get her chainsaw to cut the hole in the floor but aside from that, I 
put that slide together. When I think of how  primitive—  
 And then there was a basement and we kept dried fruit and stuff 
down there. And at one point we cut another hole in the floor of 
the— and we had a forklift down there whose name was 
Persephone and that's how we lifted stuff up and down.  
Long: How was the slide used?   
Elliott:  To slide light boxes of pasta and herbs down from the top floor. 
And we'd carry them—  
Long: How did they get in the top floor though?  
Elliott:  We'd carry them up the stairs.  
Long: And that was for storage?  
Elliott:  Well, a warehouse is for storage.  
Long: So then you would have the boxes of food and to get them stored 
up there and then to get them down to get into the truck, you'd 
slide them down?  
Elliott:  Yeah, yeah. So, we're putting together an order, we've got this list 
of things that they want. They want three boxes of this kind of 
pasta and one box of that kind of pasta. So we'd go upstairs and 
we'd slide them down and then the pallet that the order’s on had 
the cheese and the rice and the pasta on it. And then later when we 
got more sophisticated, we wrapped it all in plastic. I don't know 
what we did sooner  [before that], I think, yeah, we'd just haul it 
over the truck  and then stacked it in the truck as best we could. 
And we had load bars that we'd put across the back of the truck so 
it wouldn't fall down.  
Long: Can you tell us something about the food itself?  
Elliott:  Well, it was delicious.  Although our salaries were very low, our 
worker benefits that we weren't going to be taxed on as individuals  
included free food and a bicycle and bicycle maintenance and rain 
gear and whatever else we could think of that we could write off as 
a business expense. To this day, it's really hard for me when I've 
bought some food and someone says, "Well, how much did that 
cost?" Who looks? It's just food. Of course, you're going to get the 
best food because it's food and you want to support the  farmers. 
We carried and ate grains, flours, pasta, cheese, herbs, spices.  
 After a while, the herb company broke off and became a separate 
company. It was mostly the guys, it was Tom and Joe and their 
friends but then it got more after— Shoshana  became an herb 
person. It became more mixed. And the herb company also had a 
lot of part-timers, non-collective members who did the packaging 
later, much later. And we thought it was so cute that the big strong 
dykes would do the heavy stuff and the more delicate faggots 
would do the light stuff. What else did we— Oh, nut butters. You 
could imagine that this was not really the most— that somebody 
who had more capital could be able to distribute food more 
efficiently. Somebody who is not paying every worker to make a 
collective decision. Somebody who was paying their workers as 
little as possible and paying their executives more.  
 And so once natural foods became more popular, thanks to all the 
co-op warehouses— There's a book called Hippie Food, I just 
thought it was hilarious. It's a new book. It starts with pill stores in 
L.A. and Adele Davis and macrobiotics and, what a book. Once we 
had popularized natural foods, businesses with more capital began  
to undercut us and in our desperation we began to carry more 
packaged foods with sugar in them and people would leave, that 
was their line. And then we had to train new people and that was 
more expensive and we'd lose more money. We were preyed upon, 
as I look at it now, by women who would come in and say, "Look, I 
have all this management experience. Unless you hire me, you're 
going to go out of business and you need to pay me five times as 
much as you're paying yourselves because that's what I'm worth. 
Hire me, or you're  going to go out of business." We would hire 
them and that was the line from more people and they would 
leave. I am skipping around in this chronology here but that 
happened.  
 And then after a while  I was the last one left of the original gang 
and I just for so long I had felt— I did eventually start to meet other 
people that didn't work at Starflower and I had some close friends 
who had straight jobs and then they did what they did to make a 
better world in their free time. And I thought, "Oh, I am so 
privileged that I am working for a better world and getting paid for 
it. This is so great." And then after a while, "You know, this isn't so 
great. This isn't so great." What else could I do?  
Raiskin: It wasn't so great because?  
Elliott:  It didn't look like we were going to be able to survive. And I was 
the point person, I was the one who the suppliers were calling and 
saying, "How come you're not paying me? Are you ever going to 
pay me? This is my business, are you ripping us off?" And I'd say,  
"Oh we're going to pay you, we're going to pay you." And it was so 
different from in my personal life, I was someone who—  
 Several Starflower girls bought houses during this, Margaret had 
bought a house and I had been, "How could you do that? Pay for 
your Mother the Earth. I just don't believe you are doing that." And 
she'd say, "Well, we were living here. They were going to sell it. It 
was $500 down and $50 a month." And lots of gals got those great 
deals. Connie Newman got a great deal. And not Margaret and 
Connie so much, but several of the others who bought houses then 
they were house poor and didn't have any money and they were 
always borrowing money from me or taking loans against their 
equity from the company. And I just felt like they had hobbies 
aside from driving trucks and keeping books and I didn't drink that  
much, I never bought clothing. Anyway, I had plenty of money in 
my private life, but in my corporate life, I was so broke, I was so 
deeply in debt. It was painful.  
 When Elliott was born, when I was in labor, with every contraction, 
I would hallucinate that sheet of who we owed money to and if it 
was a particularly strong contraction, it would be like, "Oh God, if I 
only had an extra $5,000 or $10,000, if only I had an extra  $20,000." 
It was a tough time. And so I finally decided, what  could I do that 
would be saving the world at the  same time as earning a living? I 
thought, Oh, I know I'll be a high school English teacher. I'll teach 
Jane Austin.  And I called up the English Department of the U of O 
and I said, "I'd like to come to school here, I'd like to transfer. I have  
these three years of abysmal grades from Cornell." And they said, 
"Ew." And I said, "But that was fifteen years ago and I've been such 
a diligent worker since then." And they said, "We don't care if it 
was fifteen  years ago, we're not going to give you credit for poor 
work."  
 And I talked to Roscoe Caron, who had been a Hoedad among 
many other things. He had worked at Zoo Zoo’s, he had worked at 
Genesis. He believed in changing the world through democratically 
managed co-ops. And he had been at the U of O doing teacher ed in 
the elementary program and he said, "Talk to them over at 
elementary, they're much more interested in what you're doing 
now." And they were and so I became a teacher. I wonder where I 
was going with that?  
Raiskin: So you finished your degree and then you could— did you have to 
get a teaching certification?  
Elliott:  Yeah, yeah. It took three years because some of my credits were 
transferable but a lot of them were not part of the standard teacher 
ed program.  
Raiskin: What was it like for you to be a student?  
Elliott:  When I worked as hard as I could at Starflower, not only did 
Margaret not love me but we kept losing money. When I worked as 
hard as I could at the U of O, I got, "Excellent, A+, you're so great." I 
just ate  it up. I graduated summa cum laude. I just thought, "Wow, 
this feels so good."   
Raiskin: What kind of courses were stimulating to you or that— 
Elliott:  Well, I had to take three classes in math for elementary teachers. 
That was extremely difficult. I hadn't taken a math class since tenth  
grade in high school. At first, I took a little test to see if I could test 
in and it said, "No, you can't test in. You have to learn some stuff." 
So I bought an algebra book and I— Or maybe the test said, "Okay, 
you can barely test in." Because I started right away. My teacher 
was Miriam  Walter, whom you may know from Temple? 
Raiskin: Yeah. 
Elliott:  And I just thought she was the greatest, she was so elegant. I just 
couldn't wait to get to her class every day and she was concerned 
about my preparation. But I worked through that algebra book, I 
spent a lot of time down here somewhere where undergraduates 
helped me figure out what it meant and I got As in each of her— I 
took three terms of it, three years of it. I took a lot of  it and at the 
end of it she said, "Well, I just hope you never have to teach a smart 
eighth grader." Because I was certified to teach K through eight. 
And sure enough, I never taught math past fifth grade. But when 
Elliott got past fifth grade, it was a problem.  
Raiskin: Can I ask you how you came by Elliott? How you got pregnant 
with him and raised  him.  
Elliott:  A lot of the Starflower girls were friends with Hoedads and— no, 
no, no, no that was John Cloud, how I met him. No, Ed was— 
Stupid died. Did you ever meet Stupid? There was a guy named  
Stupid who had been a Wobbly and he made pamphlets of 
aphorisms on how we would change the world and he held court at 
the 5th Street Public Market and the Hoedads adored him, they just 
thought he was their leader into the next world. The gals didn't like 
him that much; he was pretty much a sexist creep, but the Hoedads 
thought he was the greatest. And he went mushroom picking with 
some younger guys and picked the wrong mushrooms and the 
guys got really sick and survived and he did not. And there was a 
wake at Growers Market and the Hoedads, oh boy, they were, "Oh, 
solidarity forever [gestures].”And I was there with Connie 
Newman and her girlfriend and my boyfriend and we were 
passing the joint with a guy that I thought was real cute and when 
we left, my bike had been stolen. And I remember thinking, "Well, 
I'm going to put up a flier with my phone number and maybe that 
cute Hoedad will see it." And then about a month later— the 
Hoedads loaned us money and I did that too, and we paid very 
high interest—  
Long: Loaned Starflower money?  
Elliott:  Yeah, individual Hoedads would loan us money. They would 
make a lot of money and then they'd go tree planting and if they 
didn't need it, they would loan it to us. We had like 5  percent for 
three months, 6  percent  for six months, 12  percent  for three years. 
We could make more money with their money than we were 
paying in interest. And so I was the one who went to the Hoedads 
general meetings to give the pitch because a lot of the other girls  
weren't that interested in the Hoedads and I thought they were 
fascinating. At the next one that I went to I brought Ed home and 
he said that he was interested in settling down and having a family 
and I said, "Well, I can't do that, I work  all the time. It's not 
something I want to do but you're so cute, let's hang out." All 
around me there were gals looking for donors and here I had this 
volunteer and I just—  
 When I was in teacher ed, I took a summer class where we had to 
write some short stories, memoirs, which I just really enjoyed 
doing. And in one of them I compared calling his bluff to when 
Snake said, "Let's go to Nepal." I was like, "Well I guess I could." 
And that's sort of how I felt about getting pregnant, it was like, 
"Okay, let's do it. Let's see how this works out."  
Raiskin: And so your desire to not settle down and have a family, how does 
that work with deciding to get pregnant?  
Elliott:  Oh, I skipped that part. He said, "I'm tired of working in the woods. 
You're making enough money  to support three of us, I'll take care 
of the kid." It's like, "Oh, well that's a possibility then." So I got 
pregnant and—  
Raiskin: Had you had desires to be a mother or was this brand new idea? 
Elliott:  No, it was a brand new idea. Skipping ahead, it didn't work out 
with me and Ed that well, but while it was not working out, you 
know how it is in a relationship, you don't realize that it's not going 
to get better, I was thinking, "Well, maybe it'll get better." I kept  
thinking, Well, he had this one great idea. This was just such a 
great idea is what I came to believe. First, I got pregnant and I 
miscarried, but by that time I had caught the fever and I went up to 
Breitenbush with Sally, who was Hayfield then and  we took some 
drugs. And at that time I felt like Elliott's spirit entered into me, 
and she said that she would be my support person and come over 
and massage me with oil every day so that I would have an easy 
birth. And I decided to do it again, and we did it again. And we 
already weren't getting  along so good by the time of the birth. But 
it was how— I don't know if you've heard that often what happens 
is just, "Oh my God, this is the most wonderful baby in the whole 
world!" This is just like— He really was the most wonderful baby 
in the whole— he was so cute.  
 And that's how I ended up being a parent. And everybody— unlike  
when Connie wanted to have a baby, when I first got to Starflower, 
Connie wanted to have a baby. And people are like, "Oh no, you 
can't have a baby. Christine's already got a baby. We've already got 
these babies that— Gabriel's got a baby, we've got these babies that 
we're taking care of that people had accidentally or had before they 
got here, you can't have a baby."  
 And that's when she— Mike Goldstein said that she could come  
and work for him and have a baby. And she went and learned how 
to be a legal secretary. And so that was also part of my decision 
when Ed said he wanted to have a baby, she was already pregnant. 
I thought, well, I'll have a baby with Connie. This'll be really great,  
and it was really great, it was so great. Elliott and Leon were such 
close friends from when they were born.  
Long: When was your son born?  
Elliott:  Nineteen eighty-four. June 16, 1984.  
Raiskin: And Ed was out of the  picture by the time— 
Elliott:  No. We hung on for years. And he did, he brought him in  to nurse 
at Starflower. He took care of him. It was a thing though that when 
I got home he would say, "Here I can't, I got to get out of here."  
 And I couldn't help remembering when I was a young child, when 
my daddy got home, it was, "Don't bother your daddy, honey. He's 
been working all day. Here's a drink dear dinner's almost ready." 
And it was so different.  
 When I got into teacher ed, when I was in Ithaca, it was assumed 
that if you had graduated from high school you knew how to write. 
But when I enrolled at the U of O, that assumption was no longer 
valid. And I was told that I had to take writing 121, 122 and 123.  
 So I got to take 121, I got to take a different— next semester writing 
class. And Coral Mack, who was my teacher, started looking at the 
stuff I was writing and saying, "Wow, this is so great. Where can 
you publish this?" And whoa, I was so excited.  
 And I shopped  a story to Mothering  magazine about that difference 
and they were like, "Are you kidding? A story about a woman who  
doesn't stay home with her baby? That we are certainly not going 
to—" 
 But he did. He stayed home for some years and then he started 
working again. And Elliott was in childcare with Leon and his 
other good buddy who we'd met in baby having class, Johnny 
VanLandingham. 
 And then they all went to Elga Brown's kindergarten together, and 
they all went to Family School together, and they all went to the 
prom together. It was kind of sweet.  
 Let's see. Were we back at Starflower when I was skipping ahead a 
million times? [reading from notes]: We all lived in the Whiteaker 
and read each other’s tarot cards. Two of the women I was closest 
to were Nina Robbins, a fragile Scorpio musician, and Connie 
Newman, a communist who wanted a baby. Russell and I got a 
divorce. I went back to Ithaca for a visit. Margaret and Gabriel  
broke up, but I still spent a lot of time with Cere. We went camping 
at French Pete in the Mount Jefferson Wilderness.  
 We went camping with— I was just thinking of Susan Baker on— I 
was camping this last weekend, and I waited until the sun made 
being in my tent uncomfortable to get up. I went camping with two 
carpenters, Rena Klein and Susan Baker.  
Raiskin: Will you talk about them?   
Elliott:  They were so great.  They were associated with Starflower, and they 
liked to go camping, and I had a car. And we would camp at 
French Pete  and they would say, “You know,  there's some hot 
springs up there.” And I said, “Let's go to the hot springs.” They 
said, “Oh, you don't want to go this hot springs. It's all hippies and 
Hoedads.” “No, I want to go to the hot springs.” “Na, na, na.” 
 I ran into Susan at— there  was a movie shown recently about 
healthcare for older gay people. That movie was shown some years 
ago at the Campbell Senior Center. And I ran into Susan there.  
Raiskin: This is  the movie Gen Silent? 
Elliott:  Yeah, Gen Silent. And she had been traveling, traveling, traveling, 
and now she had no money but she was just, she had so many 
memories. And when I— this past weekend when the sun finally— 
And Oh and she always used to say that  her idea was to wait until 
the sun came in the tent to wake her up. You know what, I should 
get hold of her for you. Yeah. Because she— I mean she came down 
from Alaska in the back of the truck and Rena came out from New 
York, little Jewish girl, tall Alaskan girl. They were the only two 
women in their architecture program at the U of O. And they— 
Long: Did they start Crescent Construction?  
Elliott:  Maybe they did, maybe they were Crescent Construction. That— 
Long: Others  have talked about them.   
Elliott:  A construction business. We did a lot of camping together in my 
Volkswagen sometimes with one or two other people and a large 
dog. We did not demand as much space in a vehicle as campers do 
now. We did not have as much camping equipment as campers do 
now. We had a lot of fun.  
Raiskin: What was that you mentioned tarot and you mentioned that the 
Jewish woman coming from New York. What was the spirituality 
landscape in Eugene— 
Elliott:  A lot of tarot a lot of— I think Connie has Nina's diaries now. For a 
while  we were passing them back and forth every five or ten years. 
A lot of each other's dreams.  
 Nina, when she was— maybe  it was after she had died, we had a 
circle and Rabbi Myron joined  us and I was like, whoa, look at that. 
There's rabbis in our town and it was an outdoor  circle and it was 
years before I realized that there were indoor religions here that 
some people might— some people  I knew might want to  associate  
with.  
Raiskin: Were you a  part of Baleboostehs? 
Elliott:  No, they were very clear that as long as I was still hanging out with 
hippie boys I was not going to be part of Baleboostehs. 
Long: Can you explain what that means?  
Elliott:  Baleboostehs  was Jewish lesbians. And they were not affiliated 
with the Temple in any way.   
Long:  And they didn't want you, because?  
Elliott:  I was not a lesbian, I did not qualify as a lesbian. I had distracted 
myself from my central heartache by fooling around with hippie 
boys.  
Raiskin: And did you have any relationship with Rabbi Kinberg and Elise?  
Elliott:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: And that what they were doing? 
Elliott:  What happened is one night I had a dream that I was in a 
congregation and I was like, they're going to start talking about 
Jesus. It's time for me to get out of here. And then I realized that 
they weren't, there's a Jewish congregation that, you know, I might 
go check it out. And I called Marlene and I said— remember when 
Myron— is there really— Can I— she told me where it was. And I 
went down  there and it was kind of cool. I recognized the music. 
My dad had been— he didn't have a bar mitzvah, but his, his 
family had, had been Jewish and his sisters  all married into more 
observant families. So, I recognize d the music from my cousins’  bar 
mitzvahs and weddings and I thought it was kind of cool. And oh, 
I know they— Ed was working nights and Elliott was about— he 
was about two or three and I was always looking for interesting 
things to do in the evenings that  children were welcome at and I 
started taking him to Tot Shabbat  and it was just so sweet. It's a 
thing that they did once a month for little, little kids. And I just 
thought it was so sweet. And one day I was over at Marlene's and I  
noticed that there was a newsletter of the Temple with interesting 
things.  
Long: Marlene?  
Elliott:  Marlene  Drescher. Surely you've interviewed her, and I called them 
up and I said, “I'd like to subscribe to this newsletter.” And they 
said, “Look, usually you join the Temple to subscribe to the 
newsletter.” I said, “Okay, maybe I'll join the Temple.” They  said, 
“What you do first, if you're going to join the Temple, is you have 
lunch with the rabbi.” I said, “Great. I’ll have lunch with the rabbi.” 
So they made an appointment and I had lunch with Myron.  
 He said, “Well, tell me about your Jewish background.” I tell him 
about the Unitarians and went on at some length. And he said, 
“Well, sorry to tell you, you're not Jewish.  That if you— because 
not every temple, but in our temple, if you had been raised Jewish, 
you would be Jewish. Or, if your mom had  been Jewish and you 
were not raised to be Jewish— but as it is, you're not Jewish. So you  
can take some Jewish classes if you want to be Jewish.” “That 
sounds great. I'll take some Jewish classes.” I started doing that. But 
then  I got a job in Winston and I was living down there.  
 So I took a break and now when I came back, I finished my Jewish 
classes and he said, “Okay, so now you're going to have to have a 
Mitzvah and we're going to make arrangements for you to go up to 
Portland.” I said, “I don't want to go to Portland. You know, it’s  
running water, what about the Willamette?”  And he said, “Well,  
okay.” And we did that, and Sally and Judy and Myron. Judy was 
reminiscing recently that he had some student rabbi who he 
wanted to bring along, too. And I said, sure. We went down there 
and I got to be Jewish.  
Long: And that's Judy Goldstein you're referring to?  
Elliott:  Yeah, who I'm sure  you interviewed also. But I had the idea at that 
time that since Elliott  was then, I forget, seven or nine, that he was 
too old to become automatically Jewish. So I told him, “Honey, of 
course I feel like you're Jewish, but you don't have to be Jewish yet 
if you don't want to be.” And she said, “Mom, I'm never going to 
be Jewish.” And I said, “Well, you certainly don't have to be Jewish 
now. I didn't think I was Jewish when I was your age.” “I'm never 
going to be Jewish!”  I said, “Honey, you don't have to decide. I was 
raised a Unitarian. We all decide for ourselves. It's fine. You can be 
whatever you  want.” “I want you to tell me that you believe I'm 
never going to be Jewish.” “I don't think I can tell you that.” That 
went on until when he  was in high school, he started meeting 
Jewish kids who he was interested in— they  started doing some 
Jewish things when he got to Reed, a few more Jewish things when 
he got to New York. Anyway, now he is so Jewish.  
 He is way more Jewish than me. He is the Jewish-est. When they 
wanted to join the Temple, because of my experience, I was 
concerned that they would not be seen as Jewish because although 
Lily's— let’s see. Lily's mom's ancestry is just like mine. Her dad's 
Jewish, but her mom wasn't Jewish and she considered herself  
Jewish, but the temple in Sacramento did not consider her Jewish. 
But as it turned out, when they finally talked to Nina, she said, 
well, of course you're Jewish. Your mom's Jewish, to him. And of 
course you're Jewish. You're married to a Jew, to her.  
Raiskin: Well, things often changed when you, with  rabbi Kinberg, the 
congregation was under the conservative affiliation and now it's 
reconstructionist. So they  have different beliefs about paternal and 
maternal.  
Elliott:  Oh. And as part of my Beit Din I was looking forward to, you 
know, seeing Myron  and Yitz and, Hanan. But when I got there, it 
was Elise and Carol and I forget  [Shonna]. Anyways, these three 
gals, it was, it was a really fun and I said, “You know, I don't know 
if I would have mentioned this otherwise, but I have to say that 
some of my friends are not real happy about me signing up with 
this patriarchal religion.” And they said “We're so happy because 
we are going to change it and you're going to be part of the change 
and this is really nice.” 
 But yeah, at the Starflower time, I, you know, it, it would never 
occur to me that somebody would have  a spiritual life connected 
with an indoor religion. It was all very “woo woo.” 
Raiskin: What about health care? How people, how people managed?  
Elliott:  Well, we were young. Starflower  paid for all of our healthcare, just 
paid outright.   
Raiskin: But did people go to doctors or was it more like— 
Elliott:  I think occasionally people went to doctors. I don't remember. Oh, 
I, I remember going to a dentist and having some qualms  about 
having found a dentist who had agreed to give me a nitrous oxide 
even for cleaning. And having Starflower  pay for that, but my 
qualms  were not strong enough to make me not accept  it. 
Raiskin: But were there any interest in non-Western  medicine?  
Elliott:  Oh yes. Yeah, yeah. For instance, when Nina first found her lump, 
she dealt with it explicitly with non-Western  medicine. Oh yeah. 
And I, I remember I was seeing a guy named TJ, a doctor, who 
worked with Sarah Hendrickson, who had an office with Sarah 
Hendrickson. And I mentioned Nina to him. And I'm sure it was 
extremely nonprofessional of him to disclose to me that he was 
heartbroken, that she was not following his advice to deal with her 
lump in some way more effective.  
 And then, eventually, we noticed that our, as everyone else's 
medical bills are going up and up and up, and we tried to get some 
insurance and there was a guy, you should have done this ten years 
ago, the names would have come so much faster. Robert DeSpain, 
Robert DeSpain  was doing a big medical group for all the co-ops 
that we were a part of for a while. That, you know seemed really 
great.  
Raiskin: That's really interesting. Can you talk about that a little bit?   
Elliott:  Yeah. He— you know how employers, well let's see. When I was a 
teacher, my medical insurance— as medical insurance  got more 
and more expensive, we instead of, you know, spending a whole 
day, every September giving us different programs that we could 
all choose among, they made an alliance with the Oregon School 
Boards Association to get a policy that would cover lots and lots of 
people and would be a little, little tiny bit cheaper.  
 And that was our goal. Having this— Judy Goldstein would know 
the most about it because she was our personnel administrator. 
And I  know so little about it, but it seemed like we had better 
coverage and it was cheaper because we had a larger client base 
with all the co-ops in it.  
Raiskin: What co-ops were involved with that?  
Elliott:  Hoedads was, you know, the bulk and us and I don't— 
Raiskin: What about the printing presses?  
Elliott:  Probably. The Northwest Working Press was who had those last 
two copies of the Co-Op Coloring  Book. And  I found them when I 
called him, there was a, there's a thing and going on now in the 
Whiteaker, “Whiteaker Tales.” They're doing a thing about the 
history of the Whiteaker. The first one they did was “Whiteaker in 
the 90s,” how all the anarchists were so cool.  
 And I had some crankiness as if the history of the Whiteaker started 
in the 90s. Eh, eh. And my crankiness percolated to the organizers.  
And the next one they did was “Whiteaker in the ‘70s.” And I was 
on the panel with Vicky Nelson, who was one of the founders of 
Growers Market and Sean O’Reilly  who had some presses, and I 
forget who the other guy was, but who I brought up from the 
audience was Roscoe  Caron  who knew so much about the co-opss 
in those days.     
 And then they did one recently about Scobert Park. That was very 
interesting. And then they did another one that I missed. Anyway, 
they're, they're just archiving away. They've got these videos now. 
Long: You had mentioned a number of people who had worked at 
Starflower.  
Elliott:  Yeah.  
Long: Are there any other members, workers at Starflower that you'd like 
to bring up? 
Elliott:  I would like to mention Jan Tobin who had an interesting 
background with some communist groups. And then came to us as 
sweeties with Martina Versoza, who I would also like to mention 
who is in Portland now and they were very close and Jan became 
one of the important people in the herb company and after 
Starflower, she ran a little natural food store at the— in Florence— 
no— after Starflower, first, she was  head hunted by our suppliers.  
 She worked for two of our national suppliers and then she ran the 
natural food store on the coast and now she's in Port Townsend  
working for the co-op there. And we're, we're— I mean hardly ever 
see each other, but we exchange newsy winter cards and are close 
on Facebook.  
Raiskin: You've been, you've been central in this community in Eugene for 
so long. Can you  talk about how things have changed or how the, 
how the community has supported you or not supported you or 
just sort of change, you know, looking sort of, you've got decades 
to think about.  
Elliott:  So when I first got here, it seemed to me as if there couldn't 
possibly be a lesbian in Eugene that  I didn't know. And as the years 
went by and Eugene grew and I, you know, I, let's see— the 
Community Village of the Oregon Country Fair decided in maybe 
it was 1979. Yeah.  
 That they wanted to not be just, you know, young, straight white 
hippies that they wanted to reach out and be more diverse. So they 
sent postcards to places where they thought they might get some 
diversity. They sent one to Starflower. And of course the gals said, 
“Jain, it's for you, the hippies, they're calling.” 
 And so I went to a Community Village meeting. “Wow, this looks 
like fun!” And I recruited Sally, who was “Hayfield” then,  to come. 
They offered us two passes to work in the Fruit Booth, who, you 
know, were all our customers. There were four co-ops who are also 
going—well, except for Growers Market, were not as financially 
stable as they would've liked to have been. And I had been in a  
relationship. So just as  the suppliers were nagging me to pay— I 
was also receivables at that time, so I was nagging them to pay. So 
it was really fun to show up there and be in a position where I had 
been the one making decisions on whether they could pick up their 
orders and all of a sudden I was like, you know, what do I do next? 
You know, maybe I shouldn't taken both hits. They were like, “It's 
okay. Just hold this watermelon, it'll be fine.” And I, I just loved it. 
And as the years went by, I found a community there that has 
become  really important to me.  
Raiskin: The Oregon Country Fair. 
Elliott:  The Oregon Country Fair. For many, many years, it was just 
Community Village. I didn't leave the Village very much during the 
Fair. And then I got involved with the Elders of the Fair and I met 
people from all over the Fair and now, and then after I retired from 
my teacher job, I started going to the board meetings, which I find 
just fascinating. And I started getting involved with more parts of 
the Fair. 
Raiskin: Why are they fascinating?  
Elliott:  Well, there's strong personalities up there with big opinions on 
how the Fair should run. Many of them extremely articulate. And 
then there's what we're trying to remember no longer to call “The 
Peach Gallery” because we've become aware that that term is a relic 
of when African Americans had to sit in the back of the theater. So 
there's the membership that sits out [sits in the same room] and  
unlike many board meetings, the membership is permitted to speak 
on every topic.  
 And there's lots of strong opinions there, too. And I, I just, you 
know, I'm just so, so interested in how the Fair runs. 
Raiskin: How was it for you celebrating the fiftieth  anniversary this year of 
the Oregon Country Fair? 
Elliott:  I find every year totally overwhelming. I mean, except for that first 
year when I seriously misjudged myself, I do not take psychedelics 
at the Fair. I— why bother? It is so amazing. It's like what a 
redundancy. I just, and so the idea that, you know, the fiftieth  
would be better than ever. It's like it, I was not that excited about 
the idea that it was going to be better than ever. I'm glad we had a 
fabulous gate. I'm glad we made a lot of money and I'm glad that 
we now have, when I first started going to the Fair, it was just the 
eight  and it and we also allowed the public to bring in alcohol and 
it was so, so crowded.  
 There was gridlock on Saturdays. It wasn't a— I stayed  in 
Community Village. I, I didn't go out into the Fair. And when we 
then decided to be a drug and alcohol-free event and have a cap on 
attendance, that helped. And when we opened up a Chela Mela 
and Xavanadu,  two large open areas, that helped a lot. So it wasn't 
as crowded as it was during those last few years in the eighties 
before those changes, it was pretty crowded.  
Raiskin: How many people came this year?   
Elliott:  Fifty-eight thousand.  We hit our cap on Saturday, 21,500  and we 
were darn close on Friday when we had a national act. We put the 
national act in our Main Stage, which is our largest stage. And it 
was not large enough. We realized that it wasn't going to be large 
enough and we asked people with wristbands not to come in the 
afternoon in the daytime and, and he did another show at night for 
us. 
 But both of those shows were— 
Raiskin: How much overlap is there of the Oregon Country Fair community 
and the lesbian community?  
Elliott:  Not much.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think that is?  
Elliott:  I mean, it's all hippie guys. I mean, well, so WYMPROV! played  
there. So Sally— the next year after she camped with me and the 
Fruit Booth, she was on the Council and she was the one who 
introduced closing Community Village meetings with the hokey 
pokey, which you know, to tell the truth, I thought it was a lot of 
fun for a few years and then I was really sick of it for a long— 
Raiskin: Sick of?  
Elliott:  The hokey pokey. For a long, long time. But then now that Henry's 
three, I think it's kind of fun again.   
Long: Can, can we back up for just a second? Yeah. Can you describe 
what the Country Village is  of the Oregon Country Fair?  
Elliott:  Sure. Community Village is a— 
Long: Oh, Community Village.  
Elliott: —nonprofit sector that is full of people advocating for a better 
world in various ways. There's a Peace and Justice Booth, which 
used to be called the Politics Booth, which is stuffed with groups 
advocating for their Peace and Justices. Right now, NAACP is in 
our booth, in that booth. Oh. So many peace and justice 
organizations are in that booth. There's the Green Earth Booth that 
is stuffed with environmental groups advocating for a better world 
in their way. There's a Health and Healing Booth. There's, a 
Lifelong Learning Booth. There's the Fruit Booth that is now just 
Growers Market, all the other co-ops have bit the dust.  
 I was in the  Fruit Booth until Elliott was about two. And you know, 
I, I just, I really wasn't that useful in the Fruit Booth  and I thought I 
would go to one more Village meeting because I loved it so much. I 
just felt bad taking up the pass. And at that booth  [meeting], the gal 
who had been coordinating the little co-op childcare booth that she 
wasn't going to come back and did somebody else want to take 
that? And so that's— I've— it was a very little booth then. Now it's 
a much larger booth and we provide childcare from nine in the  
morning through eight at night, before the Fair opens till after the 
Fair closes and we provide a fabulous experience. We, you know,  
we get kids who— it's really, really hard for their parents to get 
them to leave the booth because it's, it's such a great— it's really 
terrific.  
Raiskin: Have you had anything to do with the Culture Jam? The— 
Elliott:  No. Okay. Another thing that the Fair does is in August we have a 
camp for teenagers, an arts and empowerment camp where we— 
it's at one when they first got started, they had a lot of girls and not 
as many boys and a lot of younger teens, not as many older teens. 
And at one point, my pal Martha, who was involved with it, asked 
me if I wouldn't like to ask some of my students in Oakridge if they 
wouldn't want to be part of it. And I just did not feel comfortable 
doing that. I said, you know, I wouldn't like it if some proselytizing 
Christian asked Elliott if he wanted to come to their summer camp 
at his school. I just feel it is our proselytizing mission. We get those 
kids in there and we tell them, you know, you can be a creative 
artist, you can change the world.  
 You can— this is, this is how you can do it. This is how you can 
relate to each other. We confiscate their cell phones when they 
come in. We— I have seen so many kids that that camp has turned 
around that they have gone in there, you know, whining and surly 
and miserable and come out— “Wow.” 
Raiskin: How many kids are at the camp?  
Elliott:  Not enough.   
Elliott:  It's, oh yeah. I don't know the number, but you know, it's, it's 
definitely a lottery now. At one point Margaret, Margaret Cormier  
was having a lot of trouble with her eldest and I really wanted to 
get him into that camp. I wanted to get him in so bad. And they do 
do a lot of— they  balance boys and girls. They balance people of 
color. They balance people from other geographically balanced— 
people of different class backgrounds. He had a lot going  for him 
for possibly getting into that camp, but it didn't work out and they, 
they were already full by the time I started. 
Raiskin: I think City Parks and Recreation is involved and the city is 
involved with promoting Culture Jam.  
Elliott:  Yep. We got them to do a lot of the funding, which, because we— 
also, if you don’t have money, we try and make it happen. Our 
whole Spring Fling now is a fundraiser for Culture Jam.  
Long: How long does the Fair last?  
Elliott:  The Fair is only Friday, Saturday and Sunday.  
Long:  Wow.  
Elliott:  But if you're  addicted, you're part of main camp, you go  out there 
the beginning of June and start camping because the construction— 
the Fair site is in a flood plain. We take a whole lot of it down 
afterwards and set a whole lot of it back up in June.  
Raiskin: They own the land now though, right?   
Elliott:  Yes. We own the land. We are no longer— it used to be, we weren't 
allowed to show up until like three days before. And we're still, 
we're having some struggles with Land  Watch Oregon. I mean they 
have a— they're part of Peace and Justice in Community Village 
and yet, they continue appealing our special use permit saying,  
we're not a good neighbor. Whereas now especially  after we 
banned  drugs and alcohol, the County loves us, we're a big 
economic engine. The neighbors who used to really, really not like 
us, they now all run campgrounds during the Fair. They make 
more money on those campgrounds than they do the whole rest of 
the year.  
Long: Wow. Can you articulate the mission of the Oregon Country Fair?  
Elliott:  Boy, I should've brought my guidelines with me. I stopped 
carrying them around after the Fair. If you'd asked me ten years 
ago, I would've had it in my head. If you asked me last month I 
would have whipped it out. “To explore living artfully and 
authentically—“ Yeah, I forget.  
 So part of it is, is to support the crafters and part of it is to show the 
public how things can be. In Community Village, we originally did 
a lot, a lot of energy work and now Energy Park has split off from 
Community Village. And so that's the other nonprofit sector.  
There's two now. And they  have a lot of permaculture stuff. A lot 
of solar stuff. You can take a solar shower there. And then Robert 
DeSpain started the spoken word program and we have folks come  
in who tell people interesting things about  how we could have a 
better world.  
Long: Would you mind spelling his name?  
Elliott:  D-e- Capital S-p-a-i- n. He died suddenly last year. It was a big, big 
loss to the Fair. 
 He was one of the founders of Community Village. He also 
founded the hospitality program, which supports wrist banded 
people in getting showers and water and food during the Fair. A lot 
of the people who put the Fair together take a lot of time off from 
work to do it and— 
Raiskin: Seems that half of Eugene shuts down for people going out there.  
Elliott:  Yeah, and especially the construction crews and the site crews 
during June, you pretty much have to either be a school teacher or 
have a job where you're senior enough to have so much flexibility 
that you could, like Hilary is an accountant, she  works sixty  hours a 
week during tax season and not at all during June.  
Raiskin: Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Elliott:  Or, be extremely under-employed,  or be retired.  
Raiskin: Can I ask you some questions about aging both in the Oregon 
Country Fair world and in the lesbian community and the other 
communities that you move in and that you move in?   
Elliott:  Well,  I didn't snap back from  breaking my arm the way I might 
have when I was young.  
 I forget names. I still camp at  the Fair. We have a bus now, Late 
Night Trips, where if you have a wristband and you just can't face 
dragging all that stuff in and waiting in line for the potties, you can 
take the bus back at 10:00 or midnight on Friday and at 11:00 or 
1:00 on Saturday and sleep in town.  
 We have a thing now at the Fair where if you have twenty  years in 
as a volunteer and are fifty-five years old, you can be an Elder  and 
you pay for your pass, which isn't any different for Community 
Villagers, we pay for our pass, but  is a big shock for people on 
crews, because passes were free. And you don't get food vouchers 
anymore, which again, Community Village never got food 
vouchers, but staff people did. Other crews did. And at that time, 
fifty-five seemed really old to us and we're in constant discussion 
now about whether really we should start ratcheting that off a little 
bit. There are a lot, a lot of Elders, many of us still work at our 
original jobs. Some of us get our passes through our original jobs. 
Others get our passes  through Elders in order that, for instance, in 
my case there can be one more person taking care of the kids in the 
booth. 
Raiskin: Do you feel respected as an Elder  at Fair? 
Elliott:  More now than when the Elders program first was formed. Our 
general manager at the time, Charlie Ruff, who I thought a lot of in  
many ways really didn't think the Elders were a good idea. And  
was constantly reminding us that, it's the only crew that the Fair 
has no control over, that it's always going to be expanding and 
expanding. And we kept saying, well, eventually we'll start dying 
off. I'm so sorry we're not dying off fast enough. And then I 
realized that it's not— we can never die off fast enough because the 
Fair is continually adding more crews and every crew, except 
Community Village, when they need more workers, they just add 
more— Well, Hilary tells me this isn't really as true as I thought it 
was, but it is true that there's a lot more people  to staff Xavanadu, 
you know we have a whole new White Bird? Yeah, I don't  know.  
 She's, she's still looking for— when you sign up to get a pass, if 
you're in Community Village or many of the other crews, you go 
through the virtual sticker booth, but all the security crews and 
many of the vendors, there's not one database for everybody who's 
got a pass through the Fair. So, and she keeps, she's one of the co-
treasurers and the, let's see, the second— 
 I camped with Sally the first year that I was in the Village and then 
I camped with Hilary for several years after that and now she's 
gone on to become one of the people who runs the Fair. And she 
has always been yearning for some solid information about how 
old people really are and how long Elders are going to keep 
mushrooming.   
Raiskin: Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Well and so many founded booths, so I 
would imagine there'd be some respect for the people who founded 
those booths.  
Elliott:  Yeah, and at the fiftieth  a lot of those people were honored and 
some were not. And it was kind of who you know, and who likes 
you.  
Raiskin: There also seemed to be a queer presence, at least in terms of 
costuming.  
Elliott:  Oh yeah.  
Raiskin: So you're saying that the lesbian community and Fair don't 
intersect, but the queer element is certainly there.  
Elliott:  Right, so that— okay. So we've been struggling  with that in 
Community Village. Peace and Justice Booth, we now have a sector 
in the Peace and Justice Booth called the Rainbow Village part. For 
me it's a thing that all of the— let's see, all of the Community 
Village discussions about it online and I assume, that even the ones 
I missed in person, they always refer to queer women. No one says 
lesbian. It's always— it's so interesting to me that I am a relic. But, 
right, the costuming,  the giant puppets— yeah. So, queer culture is 
celebrated at the Fair. 
Raiskin: It is an interesting distinction between the lesbian community that 
was not part of Fair and the queer community that is now younger 
people.   
Elliott:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: Does that bring in older lesbians and gay men under this, under a 
newer, a queer visibility?  
Elliott:  I'm sure it must and yet somehow not the ones I know. I mean, I'm 
so excited when I see my old Starflower  buddies come in for the 
day. But you know, when Sally and Enid were  doing WYMPROV!  
there, they were not that happy camping in Entertainment Camp. 
Raiskin: Why not?  
Elliott:  They felt isolated. They felt, that— yeah. You'd have to ask her 
about it, but I'm not hearing any, any how they're going to come 
back soon. I remember there's a group called du Caniveaux  that 
anchors a stage up on  River Loop. One of my first, first, first Fairs, 
they were just playing on the path and they did a little skit called 
Extramarital, extramarital relations don't always turn out like you 
think they will. Extramarital— [Singing]. 
 I just thought it was so hilarious and their visuals while they were 
doing it, had them putting their arms over some people that they 
were not— and at one point the guys are putting their arms over 
the guys and gals and putting their arms—and I was like, “Oh my 
goodness, look at this. My world is whole, this is so great.” And 
they’re still there. So then they, they went to France, they were 
called “The Gutter People” and then they were called du 
Caniveaux, which apparently is French for the gutter people. And  
then they came back and they're just the greatest, their shows are so 
fabulous, but their shows always include a little bit of queerness.  
Raiskin: How are you finding the lesbian community in Eugene these days?  
Elliott:  It's— I don't— let's see— the— I don't know whether I'll  be able to 
get the lawyers to come home early enough for me to go to the 
falafel thing.  
Raiskin: Explain that a little bit.  
Elliott:  There's a falafel thing at the Temple that is explicitly queers and 
our allies. “You can come Jain, this means you, too.” It's just— it's— 
and— 
Raiskin: It's intergenerational. They're trying to get the older— 
Elliott:  Yeah. Yeah. And the last one was so great. So I need to have a little, 
I've mentioned it to Elliott, but I haven't gotten a commitment. He 
often comes home, comes home early on Friday, but it's, it's still— 
Raiskin: The lawyers being Elliott and his— 
Elliott:  —his wife. Yeah. So what I do now. I retired from my teacher job 
and I had a fabulous time traveling and taking classes at the U of O 
and working in my garden, reading and lying around and going 
out to lunch and dinner with all my friends and then Elliott and 
Lily had a kid and I started taking care of the kid and that's what I 
do now. And I'm kind of full time taking care of two kids and— so 
I don't have as much free time.   
Raiskin: Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Do you feel that amongst older lesbians 
that there's much community?  
Elliott:  I know there must be and I don't, yeah, I don't feel as connected. 
And you know, there's— Marlene in particular, who's in my booth 
at the Fair, who I went camping with, who loves Elliott so much, 
who I'm still close to in many ways has been real clear that she does 
not consider me a lesbian. I'm sure she would be, she would not 
know why you even invited me. She's just that's— 
Raiskin: That affects your social interaction with the community?  
Elliott:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin: What if you were to, thinking about this interview being seen in 
twenty  years or by younger people, like right now, because there's 
quite a lot of interest of younger people to hear your stories. Is 
there anything you would say directly to young people about from 
your wisdom of your life here in Eugene?  
Elliott:  We had a really good time. We had a culture. We had, I used to 
read the Dykes to Watch Out For  comics to— 
Raiskin:  Alison Bechdel?  
Elliott:  Yeah. To Elliott when he was little. Because I said, here, this is it. 
This is, this explains my whole life here. You can ask questions 
about all of these little references that she made to the culture that 
we had.  And I will explain them to you, honey. It was— we had 
something fabulous, fabulous.   
 We— so, through her website, let's see, first it was  her blog— 
Raiskin: Alison Bechdel's?  
Elliott:  Yeah. She had a blog and she was, I don't know when she slept, she 
was still doing her strip regularly. She was working on the first 
book and she was writing about everything and several of us 
were— formed a little community on that blog. And then it, when 
she finally backed off, it moved over to Facebook. And one of the 
gals who I became very close with lived in Texas, Maggie Jochild. 
And we, she had lived here at one time and she was very— it 
was— I just— she's a fabulous writer, a wonderful, wonderful 
writer. She was severely disabled. She was not able to get out of 
bed, but a timeless writer. And she also, because her writing was so 
alluring, became very close with another gal who had blogged on 
Alison's blog and they fell in love and Margot traveled here from 
England where she lives and we were all like, “Oh, I hear her on 
the stairs.” 
 And they were really, really happy for several years, you know, 
four weeks a year during Margot's two week va— And then they 
Skyped every day and then Maggie died. And the next year, one of 
the other gals from the blog, Cheryl, said, “Why don't we all come 
to OreGaia  and remember Maggie there.” I wonder if you're 
familiar with OreGaia? After  Michigan was no more— 
Raiskin: Michigan Women's Music Festival?   
Elliott:  Yeah, there grew up several smaller events in different parts of the 
country and OreGaia, I think this last year was the third year 
OreGaia and Margo flew in from England and I got to meet her and 
another gal from Portland who I had met as part of Alison's blog. 
And Cheryl came down and we all, we camped together there. And 
it was— I saw women who I hadn't seen since the first few years 
that I was here, women from southern Oregon, that's where I met 
Pelican and got that book from her. And there were young women 
there and a lot of really old women. And it was just a wonderful, 
wonderful experience. I just loved it so much. And we had a little 
ritual for Maggie and we had, there was music, there were 
workshops, we did this fabulous workshop on radical 
neurodiversity that has just changed my life. I've decided that I— 
that all those—I must have the adding machine right here. I mean 
there's a reason for all of that.  
 And this year I was so looking forward to going back this year, but 
they have it on the full moon in August. And this year the full 
moon in August is the same week as the Fair family picnic.  
Raiskin: Choices.  
Elliott:  And so I looked, I got out my charts and next year there are two 
full moons in August. At the beginning at the end. I sent them an 
email. I said, do you know which one? Because I'm going to, I'm 
going to block that out. And they said, “No, we're not going to 
make that decision for a long, long time.”  
Raiskin: I think it's interesting to think about how others identified you as 
not lesbian— 
Raiskin: Right.  
Raiskin: —of the community that you're describing and the younger people 
who have different definitions and whether you have any thoughts 
about how the younger generation is doing sexual identity.  
Elliott:  Well, I had a little chat with Karrie. I wonder if  you know Karrie? 
She's in our booth, she's so  great. And it was a thing and of course 
Marlene doesn't think she's lesbian either. And she was so 
affirming.  
Raiskin: Marlene doesn't think Karrie is a lesbian.  
Elliott:  And it was so affirming for me to have that discussion with  her. 
Raiskin: Different perspective of, yeah.  
Elliott:  So there is that.  
Raiskin: Is there any advice you would give you, you're with young people, 
you've been a teacher and you've got two grandchildren now. Is 
there any advice that you would give to younger people now?  
Elliott:  Well, I go right away, we haven't mentioned any of the dark side. 
First I say, “Oh, it's going to get better and better” and then I think 
of what happened in the last presidential election and what has 
happened since then. And I just don't know, I just don't know what 
to say. We thought we were this wave and for so long it seemed  
like we were this wave. Marijuana is legal. You can get married if 
you want to.  
 But, yeah I don't know. Of course I'd say love each other. Love each 
other. Eat rice— Don't forget our books. We have some wonderful 
books.  
Raiskin: What are some of them?  
Elliott:  Ah, Alison's books.  
Raiskin: The Alison, the publishers?  
Elliott:  No.  
Raiskin: Alison Bechdel.  
Elliott:  Alison Bechdel's books. One that popped into my mind that it is— 
Beyond the Pale. It's a historical fiction. It starts in Eastern Europe 
and ends up in Brooklyn. And maybe it's not the most best well-
written book in the world, but it's history and it's, yeah I should've 
thought of that. I— 
Raiskin: And is there music that you would like younger people to 
remember?  
Elliott:  We— see names go.  
Raiskin: Yeah. Yeah.  
Elliott:  Name, names go. There was a gal who was at the Fair, a famous, 
famous gal, a women's music star. Elliott liked having a little  
Shabbat in our booth and before he was doing that, one night we're 
having a little Shabbat at the Hat Booth right across from Main 
Stage and she was singing after the Fair closed. And it was so sweet 
for me, I could just step a little closer to the booth and be singing 
and then I could  step a little closer to Main Stage and be singing.  
 And I just knew that wasn't going to work this year with Phil. But I 
don't know how it worked in the Hat Booth, but it wasn't going to 
work.  
Raiskin: Is there any, before we close, is there any other particular memory 
or thought or idea you'd like to make sure you cover?  
Elliott:  I guess, it may be that  I'm one of those straight gals who nourished 
myself on lesbian culture without giving back, that are criticized 
often. But given that I was destined to be someone who was going 
to live most of my life unpartnered I am so, so grateful for the 
culture that nurtured me in the belief that I was a fine person. Even 
if I never had a husband that I could stay with all my life, that 
made my life, the life that I've been so happy in a lot of the time 
except for that big heartache I mentioned earlier.  
 They  all wrap right up with Sue. When I— let's see. When Elliott 
was really little, I was friends with Sue Barnhart and she wanted to 
have a kid and she had a boyfriend who kept saying maybe 
someday, maybe someday. And she finally gave him the  boot and 
she started exploring  adopting at the same time as she started 
dating, interviewing donors, potential partners. And finally one  
day, I wonder if you interviewed Leila Snow? There's another 
interesting lesbian. Leila Snow had gotten married and I had come 
home and I was in the backyard working in the garden and talking 
with Sue on the phone. And I said, I'll commit. This is it, let's get a 
house and I'll help you raise your kid and let's do it. And we did. 
And it's just, I've, I just, I love her more and more every year. She is 
just the greatest.  
 Shortly after that, she began seeing this guy who lived in Portland 
and after we finally found a house, he said, okay, I'll move  to 
Eugene. And he's been more of a father to Jyoti than we ever 
thought he'd be. But, like most guys, not as much as she could have 
used. And if he'd been more of a, more like a woman, more of a 
communicative person, there might not have been room for me.  But 
he's not, he's like most guys, it's like, he's not, and I've just been so 
happy. I think he doesn't, he would be just as happy if I wasn't 
there. He thinks he'd be just as happy as I wasn't if I wasn't there. 
But it wouldn't really work out. And I'd probably be just as happy, 
although, especially when Jyoti  was young, it was important that 
he'd still be there. But we both just love Sue so much that it's not— 
Raiskin: What's the difference in age between your child and her child?  
Elliott:  Oh, Elliott just wanted Sue to have a kid so much. He wanted to 
have a sibling. And by the time we finally got Jyoti, he was like 
thirteen or fourteen. But they're not close. They try to be close, but 
they're not. Yeah.   
Raiskin: So you have a lot of experience in creating families.  
Elliott:  Yeah. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Really strong families.  
Elliott:  Yeah. There.  
Long: Thank you so much.  
Raiskin: Such a pleasure  talking to you. So wonderful.  
Elliott:  It's fun to talk.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  