 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives.  This 
is an oral history interview  with Kathryn Hunt and Marilyn 
Picariello  on August 30, 2018, taking place in the University of 
Oregon library's recording studio in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Kathryn and Marilyn, please let us know if you agree to be 
recorded for this project, and that you give your permission for the 
university to preserve and make available your recorded and 
transcribed interview.   
Hunt:  Yes. 
Picariello:  Yes.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Raiskin:  Thank you.  
Long:  Let's just start out with a basic question for each of you. Kathryn, 
why don't we just start with you because you're on my left here. 
Please tell us where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background.  
Hunt:  Okay, well I'm going to start somewhere else actually. The thing is, 
just your title alone was not imaginable when we were here in the 
‘70s, right?  
Raiskin:  Uh-huh [affirmative].  
Hunt:  Yeah. That there would be somebody who had a position or a chair, 
whatever  you have, that would be gender— what is it, women's 
studies and sexuality?  
Raiskin:  Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
Hunt:  Yeah.  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  It was Women's Studies originally.   
Hunt:  Yeah, right. That was kind of happening in the ‘70s in universities. 
But it's amazing.  
So, Anchorage, Alaska, and I grew up there for a while, but then in 
South Seattle before— 
Raiskin: When were you born?  
Hunt:  Nineteen fifty. Yeah, long before any money arrived in Seattle. It 
was just a provincial backwater then.  
Raiskin:  What was your family like?  
Hunt:  What was my family like?  
Picariello:  Oh God.  
Hunt:  Let's see. Both my parents were raised in rural America, my father 
in eastern Wyoming on a cattle ranch. My grandparents 
homesteaded forty  miles south of where Custer met his fate. And 
my mother in southwest Washington State, rural, a small town. 
They had four children. My parents divorced when I was around 
ten. I was raised by a single mother, and she was ahead of the curve 
in some ways on that. I think I learned a lot about where women 
stood in society, broadly speaking, from listening to her and her 
girlfriend sit around the kitchen table. I think that was my real 
education. She was a feminist long before I was.  
Long:  What was your family doing up in Anchorage in 1950?   
Hunt:  My parents had met in L.A. during the war, and my father after the 
war got a job in the burgeoning airline industry. He was an 
avionics engineer. My grandmother told him, "The ranch will 
starve you out," and he went to school and became an engineer. He 
got a job with a small bush plane outfit up there that eventually 
became a carrier between Alaska and the lower forty-eight. My 
mom went along. She was pregnant at the time with my sister, 
Trina. I came along a bit later.  
Long:  Okay. Marilyn, how about you?  
Picariello:  Quite different. I was born in 1951 to an Italian American family in 
Brooklyn, New York. We lived very extendedly. We lived in a four 
apartment building in Bensonhurst. Three of the apartments were 
occupied by family members. My mother is the oldest of five, and 
since it was her parent's home, I grew up around  a lot of— I have 
two aunts that were there. The two uncles did not live there. I 
didn't grow up living with them. But my grandparents were there, 
my aunts were there, then eventually their families were there. 
Very working class. My parents were born in this country, my 
grandparents not. They immigrated here. What was the other 
question? What else?  
Long:  Just something about your background.  
Picariello:  Just really very loving. Pretty much loving, but they were very 
strict rules, very patriarchal. But as Devi talked about sitting 
around the table — my mother and my aunts were stay-at-home  
moms, so around 3:00, they would have coffee and danishes or 
coffee  and coffee cake, and sit around and talk about whatever, and 
laugh a lot. Those are my early childhood memories. Definitely 
growing up in a community versus just a small nuclear family.  
Raiskin:  I'm curious as to when you either knew that you were a lesbian or 
heard about lesbians. Or what maybe middle school, high school 
was like for you. Let's start with you first.  
Hunt:  Oh, no, queer was a word we hurled at each other. It wasn't really 
until I was working as a waitress, which I did for quite a while, and 
on a graveyard shift that I saw the gay men come in from the bars 
at 1:00 and 2:00 in the morning when the bars would start to shut 
down. I saw men in drag come in. They weren't in full drag, but 
they had makeup on. When I'd bend over to take their orders and 
look in their faces, I saw men, gay men. That was a revelation.  
Raiskin:  How old were you then?  
Hunt:  I was eighteen  probably. But I suppose looking back, I had crushes 
on girls in school. My youngest and best friend through grade 
school, and I, we'd always kiss and hug.  But I didn't really come 
out or have a woman lover until I was, I don't know how old I was. 
Probably twenty-two maybe. Yeah, something like that. And then I 
came to Oregon. Then I was part of a women's community in 
Seattle. I helped found two bookstores up there, a bookstore called 
It's About Time. It was a first women's bookstore in the Northwest. 
We just had a small storefront near the University of Washington,  
and we started to collect women's literature. We had to order 
Virginia Woolf's books from England, which we had to do when 
we had Mother Kali's as well. You can get her books. There are a lot 
of books we couldn't get. We were just—  
Raiskin:  They were not printed in the United States.  
Hunt:  Right, right. Well, Harcourt printed Virginia Woolf, but I think they 
must have been out of print here. I was part of that bookstore, then 
a bookstore called Red and Black that existed in Seattle as 
essentially a lesbian collective. Except for George. We'll get to 
George later. Red and Black was commies, pinkos and queers. 
That's how we described ourselves. It went for thirty  years, and the 
collective was mostly lesbians, not only.  And so when I came down 
here, I already had that, and a community of women, of women's 
lesbian community in Seattle before I came to Oregon. I met M 
here.  
Long:  Can we go back for a sec?  
Hunt:  Yeah.  
Long:  What was it about yourself, what kind of skills and experience did 
you bring to founding these bookstores?  
Hunt:  Youth. Youth, really. It was like, “Let's put on a play!” kind of. I 
think we just felt a need ourselves. We wanted to read the books 
we wanted to read. They weren't available, they weren't taught. We 
had all at once, like a zeitgeist. We just stumbled onto the idea that  
women's voices weren't heard. Our voices weren't heard. The 
YWCA on the Ave functioned as a women's center. The woman 
who ran that lives in the small town I live in, Port Townsend, now, 
and we're still friends. The Women's Divorce Cooperative was 
there. The Women's Clinic was there. The Abortion Hotline was 
there. I worked for the abortion hotline. We helped girls from 
Montana, and Idaho, and Nevada, and whoever needed and 
wanted an abortion, couldn't get it in their own state, came to 
Washington State. We had a list of doctors who would perform 
them before Roe v. Wade. The Lesbian Resource Center was there, 
and consciousness raising groups. What we call consciousness 
raising groups were all there.  
 It was kind of out of that, an amorphous community of women 
attached to the university and/or not, coming together to form this 
bookstore collective. I don't think we even did any paperwork to 
establish the business. We just started collecting books. We carried 
John Stuart Mills. We carried some titles by men, but we were 
mostly interested in finding books by women, literature, and 
nonfiction. Also it was the time when women's presses were 
beginning, so there was just this great need to speak to each other 
about what was happening in our lives. There was a critical 
examination of the left that many of us had been part of, and the 
way we felt dismissed if not downright disdained by our leftist 
brothers, and not listened to certainly.  
Long:  What years were those?   
Hunt:  I think It's About Time probably opened in '72, and Red and Black 
probably '73.  
Long:  Wow, that's early.  
Hunt:  Yeah, yeah it was.  
Raiskin:  How about you? What you knew about lesbianism, how you came 
to think about?  
Picariello:  Well, growing up in Brooklyn, being a big city kid, there was a lot 
going on, and there was a lot going on in the ‘60s. This great big 
revolution, people were moving away from their families. But to 
answer your question, I remember not lesbian, but my mother's 
hairdresser, Nicki, was totally flaming. Because of growing up 
extendedly, I've always this very early on love for women, because 
I grew up with my grandmother, and my mother, and my aunts. 
So, it felt like to be affectionate with women and taking that to 
another level was really easy. Except that I didn't call myself a 
lesbian, I called myself a bisexual. And when I got here, that was a 
really big no-no. There was no room for that.  
Hunt:  Still is.  
Picariello:  You had to either be lesbian or you were considered non lesbian or 
straight. There were a lot of rules and regulations. There were no 
gray areas at the time. I'm very happy that that has changed.  
Hunt:  It's interesting that we both saw gay men first.   
Picariello:  Oh, yeah. Right.  
Hunt:  That was the culture that was more visible, really.  
Picariello:  Way more visible. They were more voca, too. They were more 
comfortable in their skins. Early on, my boyfriends were all gay or 
bisexual. Growing up, that happened a lot. Eventually I come out 
here to go to graduate school and get enormously distracted being 
in Eugene, and meeting Devi, and E, and  a whole bunch of other 
people, and becoming what I consider to be a cultural worker.  
Raiskin:  What did you come to study when you came here?  
Picariello:  Special education.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Long:  Why did you choose University of Oregon?  
Picariello:  Because at the time, it had a really good special ed department, but 
more important, it was on the West Coast, and I couldn't get any 
further from New York. So it was the furthest I came. I first— 
Raiskin:  Why did you want to get so far away from New York?  
Picariello:  Oh, because it was just— I wanted to grow up, I wanted to meet 
my contemporaries. I wanted to see who else was out there. And I 
certainly found it. I certainly found it.  
Long:  Can you describe your experience in school and up to  high school?   
Picariello:  I went to parochial school. I was pretty provocative. I skipped two 
grades. By the time I get to high school, I finally meet other 
people— I finally meet what I call the Jewish girls. They were not 
as sexually as suppressed as the Catholic school kids, and 
everything changed. High school really was pretty fun. Though 
big, big. My high school, my graduation class was around 1,500 
people. If you ever watch Welcome Back, Kotter, that TV show, the 
beginning where they show the school and the neighborhood, 
that's my neighborhood. So I did not grow up in the pretty, affluent 
part of Brooklyn. We were very working class, though very diverse 
in terms of Jewish people, Italian people. Small stores, not even big 
grocery stores. It was a really wonderful way to grow up for a 
while. And whet my appetite to meet other people, to meet 
different people, to find more culture, to understand more of what 
was going on outside of Brooklyn because it was a really rough 
place to grow up, actually.  
Raiskin: Why did you want to leave?  
Hunt:  Why were you on the run from your family? Talk about why the 
family wasn't working for you.  
Picariello:  Because I wasn't going to get married and live with them, and have 
children, and marry a man, and cater to them. Though later, I had 
great respect for my mother and aunts, and understood how their 
talent and running households and keeping everything running 
really well, and working on budgets, and what that all took. At the 
time, it was where my future was headed, no  matter I got educated  
or not, and that was not going to happen. No. There was something 
else that was calling to me.  
Raiskin:  When did you know that you didn't want to marry and have a 
household like that?  
Picariello:  Early, about seventeen. Yeah. Because I was ahead in school, so I 
was around older kids and had different ideas, and stuff like that.  
Raiskin:  What was distasteful to you about that?  
Picariello:  It felt oppressive, that even though these women around me were 
enormously talented, they were  also isolated, that I identified more 
with my dad who left. He left in the morning and was out in the 
world, and came back at night, and that seemed like what I wanted 
to pursue. That was very interesting to me. Besides raising children, 
which I think is enormously difficult.  
Raiskin:  What was the year you came to Eugene?  
Picariello:  Early ‘70s.  
Raiskin:  What was the year you came?  
Hunt:  I came in '74.  
Raiskin:  Okay, what did Eugene look like then? What was it like here?  
Hunt:  It was a  funky working class town.  There wasn't much money here. 
The downtown was just a few dusty streets. I don't know if the  
Register-Guard  was there, is still down there or it's gone to different 
headquarters.  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Hunt:  But it was down in the middle of town. There was one gay bar, or 
the women's bar.  
Picariello:  The Riviera  Room.  
Hunt:  Yeah, the Riv Room. The buildings were largely in need of 
maintenance and repair. But it was an affordable place. You could 
live here on almost nothing. The economy was in good shape in the 
U.S. Ran off the war, and the war fed the economy, and we came of 
age at that time. We saw some of the boys who went to school with 
off to Vietnam. Both of us did. But the economy was still going, and 
the Great Society benefits were still flowing. The counter-revolution 
of Ronald Reagan hadn't started yet. And so it was a really cheap 
place to live. You could be funky, you could get your clothes at the 
Goodwill. We did— 
Long:  What was downtown like? Do you remember downtown?  
Hunt:  Well, it was  just like a few blocks worth of buildings, and empty 
storefronts here and there. We didn't own anything then, so it 
wasn't like we needed to go get housewares somewhere. We just 
went to the Goodwill for everything. When I think of how we 
moved, how often we moved and we threw everything in the back 
of a car.   
Picariello:  Yeah. If we didn't have enough money to pay the rent, and there 
was a space, maybe a big closet, you just invited a friend, and they 
came, and they didn't have any money either, and for $50 — that 
kind of rent was really good. We lived really extendedly. A  lot of 
people in these small spaces.  
Hunt:  I didn't know anybody with a full-time job.  
Picariello:  No. Hanging out was very important.  
Hunt:  Who wanted one? Who wanted to live that way? That was our 
attitude.  
Picariello:  Hanging out was important, to sit around and dream, and think 
things up.  
Hunt:  And smoke pot.  
Picariello:  I have to say that for me being Italian American, Eugene was really 
white. Really, really white. I remember the first time I signed or 
was looking for a place to live, and they saw my last name, 
Picariello, and turned around and said, "Oh, you're a Dago. Oh, 
you're a Dago." And I was like, I had no idea what that meant. I 
knew it wasn't good, but I didn't really know what the slur meant. 
It was only recently that I Googled it and found out that it was 
people that are Spanish, Portuguese or Italian. Go figure. All of a 
sudden I felt like— 
Hunt:  Those Romans.   
Picariello:  —I was not quite white enough here. I wasn't Protestant. My 
grandparents immigrated here. We were always under the  
impression— I was under the impression that had you been in this 
country for generations, then you must be a millionaire. I found 
people like Devi  and Red, and I just thought, what went wrong? 
Very downwardly mobile, very—  
Hunt:  Yeah, not on either side of my family for generations.  
Picariello:  What happened? That was a little unsettling, actually, to all of a 
sudden be considered the person of color in the  room was like, 
“whoa.” You know?  
Long:  Yeah. Marilyn, I wanted to ask you, when you came to attend  UO, 
were you an undergraduate?  
Marilyn: No, graduate school.  
Long:  Or graduate student?  
Hunt:  Graduate.  
Long:  Okay. Where did you go to undergraduate school?  
Hunt:  City College of New York, Harlem. In Harlem. A hundred and 
Thirty-fifth street. Very different.  
Raiskin:  You said it was very distracting when you came here. What were 
the distractions for each of you?   
Picariello:  For me, it was the lesbian community. All of a sudden, there was 
just a lot of energy. We were young. We were  so young, early 
twenties. It was just like, wow! let's see what we can do. A lot of 
energy to start things. It wasn't like we were just sitting around. We 
were smoking a lot of pot, but we were also dreaming things up. 
Meeting Devi  was monumental. It was life changing for me. We 
became lovers and partners, and comrades, and started Mother 
Kali's together along with E. It was amazing. It was just great.  
Long:  Devi  is Kathryn's nickname?  
Picariello:  Yes. 
Hunt:  That's my nickname. Yeah.  
Long:  Okay. Marilyn,  what was your nickname?  
Picariello:  She named me Muff, short for muffin.  
Hunt:  Muffy.  
Picariello:  Muffy. Some friends here still, they'll call me Muffin, they'll go, 
"Oh." It's like, it's fine, it's fine. Don't worry about it.  
Raiskin:  What did you do for fun?  
Picariello:  Went to the Riv Room, danced. I'm a musician.  
Hunt:  You played music.  
Picariello:  Play music a lot. That was the—  
Hunt:  Wrote poetry.  
Picariello:  —other— wanting to find out who the other women musicians 
were in town.  
Raiskin:  What did you play?  
Picariello:  First, I'm a guitar player. As a teenager, took lessons. And then 
because there was a need here, I became a drummer, and that 
opened up all kinds of doors because there wasn't— 
Raiskin:  It’s interesting to hear that  there was a need for a drummer.  
Picariello:  Yeah. In particular.  
Raiskin:  Where? How was that?  
Picariello:  Well, we wanted to play rock music. We wanted to play original 
music, and you needed a drummer for that beat. You needed that 
beat.  
Raiskin:  Where  did you play?  
Picariello:  Often times at the WOW Hall, the Riv Room, the Hoedads. 
Hoedads would have an annual party. Can't remember where it 
was. Some place that was very cold. Yeah, a lot of different places 
with a lot of the same people. And then we would just change 
names, and change style of music. I played in country western 
bands, played in jazz bands, I played in punk bands, but with a lot 
of the same people pretty much. Did Mort’s  Port, which was a 
collaboration with The Wallflower Order, which was a big musical.  
I was part of the band there with David Winters, and Kat, and 
Susie. A lot of the same people, but we were very interested in 
different styles in music. Along with creating Mother Kali's and 
starting that from the ground up, we also had to have music 
studios. Very often here in town, there were, as you know, next 
door  to where you lived, the living space, there was a garage. 
Because I did not grow up with garages.  
 We very often would go to remnant carpet places, go into the 
dumpsters, get carpeting, and make these garages music studios. I 
must have made in the time I lived here, I don't know, ten of them 
or something. I was really very good at turning garages into music 
studios.  
Long:  Where abouts in town were those?  
Picariello:  A lot of times they were out River Road where I live now, because 
you had more room there. It wasn't so urban. But the Whiteaker, 
definitely, we moved there. We lived there for a long time, west 
side. One of my bands was West Side Jazz, and that because we 
lived in the Whiteaker. And then as rents were climbing, we kept 
moving. Going over the Chambers bridge to River Road. Lived 
there a lot in various different places because we could do what we 
wanted there cheaply.  
Long:  How about you, Kathryn? Your different experiences, activities in 
Eugene?   
Hunt:  I think when I look back on our lives there, they were so connected 
with others, other people. There were dancers, there were poets, 
there were songwriters, there were the musicians. There were 
people who were painting.  Everybody knew each other, and we 
hung out together, and slept together, and rented houses together. 
That's what we lived for, was to write and read poetry or music, 
and share that with each other, and do that. Out of that, grew 
Mother Kali's. There was a coffee house, Gertrude's. The 
Wallflower was really a wonderful dance troupe. Linda Rose from 
the Wallflowers is Mar's partner now. We lived, and were 
connected with all those folks. There was a karate studio that a lot 
of women took black belts in, including some of the Wallflower 
women. The Wallflower women, for me, were really important 
because their art was so beautiful. It was really amazing to see.  
 They kicked down the door of — they were all ballet students and 
classical dancers, and they just kicked those doors down, and came 
in the bodies they had, and did really interesting and I thought 
brave pieces. But art. They really spoke through their bodies, and 
that was always really wonderful to see. They were all completely 
out of their minds, but it was really fun. The whole community 
was— we were in our twenties. Drugs and alcohol were definitely a 
part of the scene. We were under a lot of pressure because the 
American right wing was really unleashed with the election of 
Ronald Reagan. Here, it meant that Anita Bryant and Phyllis 
Schlafly, I think her name was, came to Oregon to try to help pass 
legislation against gays and lesbians. That was pretty alarming and  
awful to see from  the highest office in the land  (here we are again). 
But then to have Reagan and others speak out against us. To this 
day, I can't understand why anyone would waste their time 
complaining about gay people. Some of the nicest people on the 
planet. What is the problem? I've just never been able to get my 
head around it.  
 But a lot of people are really cranked about it, and they're 
dangerous folks to us. Have been, and threatening. I think the 
legacy that gays, lesbians, queer people carry of being denigrated 
has been internalized, and people have to sort through all that. 
That's happens in a lot of ways in our culture, but that's the way it 
happened in the community we were part of.  
Picariello:  I do have to add that of all the causes that we were not quiet about, 
the one that really pushed us over the edge in terms of the 
government coming in and spying on us was the American Indian 
Movement. We had people from the Dakotas come.  
Hunt:  From Pine Ridge Reservation.  
Picariello:  From Pine Ridge.  
Hunt:  A woman named Ellen Moves Camp came here.  
Picariello:  Right, to talk about what was going on there. That was the thing. I 
think the next few days, all of a sudden men in suits were coming 
into the bookstore, looking around and asking questions. I'd be 
like, "The FBI is here."   
Hunt:  They tapped our personal phones.  
Picariello:  Yeah, they did. They did. That was the reason.  
Long:  You're kidding.  
Hunt:  No, my phone had been tapped when I lived in Seattle and was 
part of the anti-war movement. I know this because during Jimmy 
Carter's administration you could apply for and get— 
Long:  Freedom of information?  
Hunt:  Exactly.  
Picariello:  You could know.  
Hunt:  There were five different government agencies, scary ones that I 
didn't even know existed, who had my name and kept track of me 
for quite a few years. I wish  I had been a threat to the state, but 
believe me, I was no threat to the state. Kind of stunning. An 
example of how we were connected, it was Laurie at Amazon 
Publishing, which was in the same building, on the same floor as 
Jackrabbit Press. Have you talked to Kate Thompson from 
Jackrabbit Press yet?  
Long:  Not yet. Not yet.  
Picariello:  Growers  Market, around there.  
Hunt:  Yeah, down there across from the train station. Next door to her 
was Laurie. I didn't remember Laurie's last name.   
Picariello:  No, I don't either.  
Hunt:  She ran Amazon Publishing. What Lesbians Do  was one of her 
books. Men came into Mother Kali's all the time, and they would 
beeline. They must talk about it up in the woods where they live. 
Go to Mother Kali's and look at the book, What Lesbians Do. They'd 
walk in the door and we'd just watch them. There they go. We'd 
say, "Mister, that's not for you. You can leave now." But anyway, it 
was Laurie who brought Ellen Moves Camp in from the Pine Ridge 
Reservation in South Dakota. She told us about what was going on 
in Pine Ridge, and that was after the second Wounded Knee, which 
happened in 1973. We got to know her, Ellen, and Kamook Banks 
and Dennis Banks. That just set off a lot of craziness in the people 
who were watching them, which was the FBI because they were 
involved in Wounded Knee, and they were part of a group that was 
accused of killing FBIs.  
Picariello:  Right, and [crosstalk 00:31:03].  
Hunt:  Anyway, but we were all kind of connected in that way. Laurie 
said, "You've got to come to this potluck," and seventy-five women 
showed up, and a lot of us  helped them from then on.   
Long:  Can we step back for a second?  
Picariello:  Sure.  
Long:  If you could tell us when you met, and how you came to start 
Mother Kali's.   
Hunt:  I came down from Seattle with Ellen Greenlaw and a woman 
named S. Reddick, Shelley Reddick who's now in Seattle, and was 
part of the Red and Black Bookstore for a long time. Reddick knew 
a woman here, Kathy Timmons, a lesbian. I suppose we expected 
and probably did crash at Kathy Timmons's apartment. When we 
arrived, Marilyn was there with her guitar. Kathy and Marilyn 
were playing music. I think I left that night madly in love with 
Marilyn, this brown eyed girl from Brooklyn.  
Picariello:  Yeah, ditto.  
Hunt:  It's like, wow, really? New York? What could that mean? So that's 
how we met.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Hunt:  That was '74.  
Picariello:  They moved down here during the next year. E has a big fat 
inheritance of $800 and says to us, "Well, what should we do with 
it?" We had  two options. This is how I remember it. We have two 
options. We can start a bakery or we could start a bookstore. We 
were like, "Well, bakery, that means we have to get up in the 
middle of the night, and we don't know the first thing about 
baking. You guys have this wealth of knowledge around books and 
culture. Let's open a bookstore." That's what we did with $800. Of 
course at the time, we did not get paid because that was a big no-
no. We were cultural workers, and so we weren't going to get a 
salary. We didn't get a salary for a while. And then—  
Hunt:  Well, we didn't have any money, didn't make any money for ages.  
Picariello:  Eventually, eventually— 
Hunt:  We started making like $40, was it a month?  
Picariello:  Right, $40 a month.  
Long:  Were you done with your master's program at that point?  
Picariello:  I was very done with all of that, yes. I was done.  
Hunt:  You didn't— 
Long:  Did you work in your profession?  
Picariello:  Very little. I worked for a research company here that was very 
much involved with  behavior. What was it called? Behavior 
management? Behavior— I'm sorry. I'm spacing out. The first 
month that I was part of this research team, watching kids do all 
sorts of bad behaviors and tracking it, I was so out of there. I was 
like, okay so what do  these kids have in common? Let's see. They're 
poor. They're poor, and they have problems with reading, and they 
have behavioral problems. Oh, behavioral modification, that's it. 
There was the negative behavior modification approach, a positive, 
and a neutral. I was like, man, this is fucked up. I went to school for 
this? Yeah, I didn't pursue that. But the real reason was to leave 
home. The real reason was to plan my escape route. I broke my 
parents’ hearts anyway, but I wanted to do it in a softer way. The 
idea of going to school was way more— they could take that in  
better. I was one of the few family members that went to graduate 
school, so it was okay until I said I wasn't coming back. Then it 
wasn't so okay.  
 We start Mother Kali's, and I decide because I'm so in love— 
Hunt:  On Eleventh  Avenue.  
Picariello:  On Eleventh. I'm so in love, I write them a letter, and I tell them 
that I'm out, I'm a lesbian, that I'm in love with Devi. It didn't go 
over so great.  
Raiskin:  What did they say, your parents?  
Picariello:  They said, "Do you want to come home and get some mental help? 
You want to see a psychiatrist?" I went, "Uh no, I don't think so." 
And broke my mother's heart.  
Hunt:  Your brother told you that you'd broken your mother's heart, and 
sent her to the hospital.  
Picariello:  And sent her to the hospital. Yeah. But it was okay. It was kind of 
like, it's okay. And then about thirty-five years later—  
Hunt:  I kind of remember us being pretty devastated by that.  
Picariello:  Yeah, it was pretty awful. But it was also like I wasn't going to drop 
— again, I was at this crossroads of should I not do this, or should I 
go back home? That wasn't going to happen. Processing for thirty-
five years, they finally acknowledged Linda's and my relationship, 
and embraced her and loved her. I say, "You see? You got to stick  
with stuff because thirty-five years later, it can all change." She's 
definitely part of the family now.  
Long:  That's your partner, Linda?  
Picariello:  Rose.  
Long:  Rose.  
Picariello:  Right. That's my story, and I'm sticking to it.  
Raiskin:  How did you choose the name Mother Kali's?  
Picariello:  E came up with it. She was— 
Long:  Can you explain E again for the record?  
Hunt:  E is Ellen Greenlaw. She was the third. There were three of us who 
founded the bookstore together.  
Picariello:  She was the one with the money.  
Hunt:  She had $800.  
Long: Eight hundred dollars. 
Hunt:  Yeah. She also had a degree in literature from the University of 
Washington, and she was a writer.  
Picariello:  Very passionate about women's— 
Hunt:  Literature.  
Picariello:  Yes, very.   
Long:  Now, you scouted out, you decided let's go find a place where we 
can have this bookstore.  
Hunt:  Yeah, yeah.  
Picariello:  Right.  
Long:  What came first? Thinking about your stock, or where it would be 
located?  
Picariello:  Well actually, we really wanted to create a women's community 
center, and wanted to be able to invite women and come and 
dialogue around what was going on culturally, and so how are we 
going to pay for this? Well, a bookstore. That's how that happened. 
There was a funky little house on— 
Hunt:  On Eleventh.  
Picariello:  —on Eleventh  that now the lot is still for sale, but it was a house. It 
was a nice house.  
Hunt:  Funky old clapboard sided house right on Eleventh. 
Long:  Eleventh  and?  
Picariello:  Lawrence. Around there.  
Hunt:  Yeah.  
Picariello:  Lincoln.   
Hunt:  Whoever owned it agreed to rent it to us for something we thought 
we could afford, and we did it all at once. E and I worked on 
ordering books, trying to find the titles we wanted. Tony Morrison 
was coming into print. Alice Walker was coming into print. The 
lesbian presses and women's presses were coming online. Audre 
Lorde, Judy Grahn. We were doing that, and then our friend Casey 
was building bookshelves for us. We were trying to clean the place 
up and get it kind of spiffy, and set up a little office and a place 
where — weren't there a couple rooms downstairs?  
Picariello:  Yes. Right, right.  
Hunt:  People came and had meetings, or they came and had writer's 
groups, or they had and schemed about— 
Picariello:  Poetry groups.  
Hunt:  —some political event they wanted to hold. But it was a place 
where a young woman coming into town could drop in and 
connect with the lesbian scene. Really, it was there, plugged in.  
Raiskin:  How would you know about it?  
Hunt:  Well, I would think if you could get to the Riv Room, a couple 
beers later you'd know about Mother Kali's.  
Picariello:  It was a hub.  
Hunt:  Yeah, it was a hub.  
Picariello:  It was, yeah.   
Hunt:  You wouldn't have to be in town— because  everybody knew 
everybody. Everybody was connected like the map of who slept 
with who. I think that was one thing that was pretty amazing about 
this community, and I don't know if it's true elsewhere in the 
country. But, we never had a day where we didn't stay friends. We 
never had a single day where we didn't stay connected after we 
came to the end of being lovers. I think that was true for a lot of 
women. It's not always true. But a lot of relationships endured 
through lots of changes, and that connected a very tight web in this 
town for a long time of close relationships and people taking care 
of each other.  
Raiskin:  How were they able to stay friends when the model of heterosexual 
breaking up or divorce doesn't tell that story?  
Hunt:  That's a really good question.  
Picariello:  That's a good question.  
Hunt:  Because partly, we were all on the run from that story, so we were 
willing to examine that. I think that was part of it. And then when 
the rest of the cultural puts a fence around you and says you're 
different and blah, blah, blah, or the other things they  said, then 
maybe there's more reason or more energy for trying to make it 
work. It paid off to try to make it work. We didn't have to work at 
that.  
Picariello:  No.  
Hunt:  It just happened for us. We were lucky. But you were all still 
connected. What did it mean? You'd have to leave or what?  
Picariello:  Yeah, no.  
Hunt:  How bad would it have to be? And also, I just think there was just a 
softness about divorces within— there was some way that the 
community facilitated it. I don't know quite, I couldn't describe it 
but I think there was a way that people tried to make it possible for 
each other where the relationship just changed, but people to stay 
friends with both, and all of that stuff that matters for a community 
to hold the change along with the two people who have to endure 
it.  
Picariello:  Plus, in terms of breakups and divorces, on the material level, there 
was nothing.  
Hunt:  True.  
Picariello:  You shared records. There was no— 
Hunt:  And pots and pans. We had to split up our bowls.  
Picariello:  Right,  there were no big fights. Okay, who's going to get the 
bookshelf? Because that comes later when you have more stuff, and 
who has what, and who's the owner of what. The other thing  about 
it was we were very anti-monogamy. That was a patriarch value 
placed on us. All hell broke loose in terms of that, so you couldn't 
live that way and then be mad when your lover was sleeping with 
someone else. You were very—  
Hunt:  I was. I could be.  
Picariello:  Yeah, you could be. But you know what I mean on a bigger level?  
Hunt:  Yes. 
Picariello:  Those were the values we were trying to work through.  
Hunt:  And make room for.  
Picariello:  And make room for, so you couldn't be — it was kind of like, no 
there's no room for that. The only regret that I kind of have in terms 
of the community was around lesbians with boy children. I don't 
know if anyone has talked about this, but that was really a very, 
very difficult thing. Often times, women with boy children— the 
philosophy or the political rightness, correctness was that they 
needed to be raised by men. And so some of those boys were 
farmed out to gay men here in Eugene. I'm not sure if people 
you've talked to have spoken about that,  but it was a really, really 
hard thing. It was something, for me anyway, that really, I don't 
know, it wasn't right. There was something not right about it. I 
could understand. I had to decide to not be bisexual, to not relate to 
men and be bisexual. But to give up the boy children, that's a hard 
thing. That is a really hard thing. Not everyone did it, but it was 
certainly a dialogue.  
Raiskin:  What was a gay men's investment in taking the children?  
Picariello:  Well, we convinced them that it was their role.   
Hunt:  Some of the dads later.  
Picariello:  Some later were the dads through artificial insemination or turkey 
baster babies that we called them. But yeah, that was a real hard 
one. Real hard one. It caused a lot of pain.  
Long:  Can you please describe  the layout of the bookstore? Walk into it, 
and take us through it.  
Hunt:  Well, you'd come in the front door. I think it was a glass door 
probably. On either side would've been bookshelves that Casey 
built, kind of tall shelves. I think she had wooden uprights on the 
shelves. She built us real bookcases. We had a window seat about 
halfway up the wall to your left, and people could hang out there. 
And then I think in back was what would've been the kitchen of the 
house where we made tea or coffee.  
Picariello: Right. Office.  
Hunt:  There was a bathroom back there. Then off to the side were the two 
bedrooms, and those were meeting rooms. Those were where 
people came and met or had poetry readings and stuff like that. We 
didn't have an enormous stock. Now if you go into bookstores, 
there would be tables all along through the middle of a bookstore. 
There wasn't that. It was open, wood floor, lots of windows, single 
pane of course, so it could be cold at times.  
Long:  Was there a bulletin board?  
Hunt:  Roomy. A what?   
Long:  Did you have a bulletin board?  
Picariello:  Out front. And a free box, of course on the front porch.  
Hunt:  We let people know what was going on and what was coming up, 
what things they could attend.  
Picariello:  But the other unique thing about our bookstore on Eleventh, and 
then eventually we moved to Blair, across from Tacovore, which is 
now Tacovore, and right next door  to Zoo Zoo's. Nowadays it's a 
Japanese restaurant, but it was Mother Kali's. But what I wanted to 
talk about for a minute was the inventory. We got into a lot of 
trouble because of the inventory that reflected who we were. What 
I mean by that was Devi  has talked about feminist literature. Of 
course that was very well represented. But we also had witchcraft, 
we also had Mao, political, communist stuff.  
Hunt:  We had Robert Graves, Jung.  
Picariello:  Yeah. Everyone, however you identified, you could find books 
there, but you would also say, like the commies would say, "Well, 
what's the witchcraft stuff? What's that? Natural healing, well why 
is that here?" We were always having to explain, “Well, because 
we're cultural workers and this is the culture that we're trying to 
live by and promote.  
Hunt:  And it was us.  
Picariello:  And it was us.   
Hunt:  We were. All those things seemed within our scope of what we 
were willing to ask questions about.  
Picariello:  I think that stayed throughout the opening and closing of Mother 
Kali's. It never became just one thing, not that I know of.  
Hunt:  Right, right.  
Picariello:  They always had that mix. That was because that's how it was 
founded.  
Hunt:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did you read a lot individually?  
Picariello:  I don't really like to read. There was study groups. That was left to 
them. I was more of the community cheerleader.  
Hunt:  Yeah, you were the extrovert.  
Long:  What were the operating hours?  
Hunt:  Yes, I did always much.  
Long:  When were you open?  
Hunt:  Oh, probably about 10:00. Ten or 11:00 until 6:00 at night.  
Picariello:  Yeah, something like that.  
Hunt:  Yeah, something like that. I think we were there probably six days 
a week.   
Picariello:  Yeah, yeah. And then there were the meetings at night, you know?  
Long:  Uh-huh [affirmative].  
Hunt:  Right, readings.  
Picariello:  We had to move, and we moved to, like I said, to the Blair space. 
That had an upstairs, and E hung this enormous parachute on the 
ceiling, and that's where a lot of our meetings for the community 
happened. I remember one of the landlords came over kind of in a 
fit and said, "You're not going to have lesbian powwows up here 
are you?" And we said, "Absolutely not."  
Raiskin:  What did he not want about that?  
Picariello:  He did not want a lesbian powwow. He did not want lesbians.  
Hunt:  Exactly.  
Picariello:  Yeah, he didn't— 
Hunt:  What could the problem be?  
Picariello:  That's what I remember.  
Raiskin:  But it's just so blatant.  
Picariello:  Oh, yeah. Yeah just like, "Are you a Dago?" You're very blatant. 
Right, right. But we assured her that no, we weren't going to have 
that. No, no, no, no.  
Raiskin:  A lot of people lived right in that neighborhood.   
Picariello:  Yes. 
Hunt:  Yeah,  totally.  
Picariello:  Absolutely.  
Hunt:  Kate Thompson lived down there, and I lived in that 
neighborhood.  
Picariello:  I lived like two door down.  
Hunt:  Reddick did.  
Picariello:  Yeah. Absolutely.  
Long:  Did you tell us yet why you chose the name?  
Picariello:  Oh, yeah.  
Hunt:  No.  
Picariello:  We don't know why. You did.  
Hunt:  Well, I think partly I'd been interested in a woman named Sarada 
Devi, a teacher, Hindu spiritual teacher. In reading about her, I'd 
read about the great Mother Kali. It just seemed kind of 
provocative to name it after a goddess who's shown with a necklace 
of skulls.  
Picariello:  And a sword. She's the dark mother of India. It was so, so  anti-
American, so anti-European. It was cool.  
Hunt:  And also, the goddess of mercy.   
Picariello:  Yes. Was she the goddess of mercy?  
Hunt:  Yeah.  
Picariello:  Oh, both.  
Hunt:  And so, we just went for it. But people always thought that was 
kind of crazy. It was kind of crazy. But there was, for how many 
years did Mother Kali's go? Thirty  years or something?  
Picariello:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Hunt:  I think we did do some paperwork for Mother Kali's and 
incorporated with the State of Oregon, but we never owned it. We 
never thought of ourselves as small business people or owners. We 
were a collective. We met on Sundays and made all our decisions 
together. E and I would figure out what to order and who to order 
it from. When we handed it off, we were done. We needed to earn 
money in a different way, and we needed to earn money.  
Long:  When did that happen?  
Hunt:  We just gave it away.  
Picariello:  We just gave it away, yeah. We just like, okay.  
Long:  Oh, wow.  
Hunt:  It was '79, we think.  
Picariello:  Anne, to Anne, Izzie. Yeah.   
Hunt:  Yeah. She'd been working there, and she seemed like a fine person. 
I think there were a couple other people there, too. We always had 
friends who helped us, volunteered in the bookstore.  
Picariello:  Women that were just getting out of prison, out of the Salem 
Penitentiary came and volunteered. We were fine with it because 
we understood why they were in prison. Most of the time were for 
bad checks or whatever. So yeah, we really created something that 
we really wanted and lived.  
Raiskin:  What did it feel like at the time to know that you had created this 
central place for community?  
Hunt:  Oh, that's a good question. I suppose, I really enjoyed it. It was fun 
to be in the middle of things. Yeah. Even though we caught shit 
from different factions. The Stalinists were in Eugene, and the 
Maoists were in Eugene. We were in Mother Kali's. And they were 
like— 
Picariello:  And the natural food people.  
Hunt:  And the natural food people, and the men who wanted to read 
about what lesbians do. But it was fun to be in the middle of this 
wider community. Mother Kali's was definitely a fixture in that. We 
saw everybody who came through town out of the collectives that 
were in the country and in the southern part of Oregon, anybody 
passing through town. It was really fun. I think I felt a sense that 
we'd made something. It was really fun to do it with my partner, 
and we had a good time as I recall.   
Picariello:  Yeah, and I was really— 
Hunt:  We didn't have any inner conflicts or splits or anything like that.  
Picariello:  Years later when Linda and I get together and are living in San 
Francisco, we would come back here for part of the summer 
because San Francisco did not have a summer. When we would 
come back, at times I would say, "Well, what happened to Mother 
Kali's?" And I remember one of the last times I went to the newer 
bookstore was up near the university, and met some of the people 
there. They were so adorable. One question was, "Well, you ran it 
collectively. How was that?" In other words, what  we really want 
to know is, did you argue a lot?  
Hunt:  Really, you think that was what they were— 
Picariello:  That's what they asked me, and I said, "Oh, no. We didn't argue."  
Hunt:  I had no idea.  
Picariello:  No, there was no conflict. Everything was just — and she was like, 
"Really?" And then I said, "No. That's not true."  
Hunt:  No, it's not. No.  
Picariello:  But we liked conflict because we thought that was the way, that 
was creative, that was creativity.  
Raiskin:  You don't remember so dramatically?   
Hunt:  Well, I don't remember having a lot of serious conflict in the 
bookstore. Do you? Among ourselves?  
Picariello:  Maybe it was just in my life, and I was just saying. The collective  
process, yes, was wonderful at Mother Kali's, and then I moved on 
to Starflower, and forty  people sitting around talking about— 
Hunt:  Yeah, I think that was a much different— 
Picariello:  So I think I was kind of — yeah.  
Hunt:  But at Mother Kali's not so much.  
Picariello:  Yeah, right.  
Hunt:  We'd meet and figure things out, and have lunch, and go on.  
Picariello:  Right, yeah.  
Raiskin:  You said you were done with it at a certain point. Why?  
Hunt:  Well, I wanted to finish a degree. I was tired. I had been a waitress 
through  a lot of that, and I could see that that was going to be really 
hard going into my thirties  if I kept it up.  
Picariello:  Oh, yeah, that was at thirties.  
Hunt:  Yeah. There it was. And so, I came to the university and finished 
my degree that I'd started at the University of Washington in 1968.  
Raiskin:  What subject was that?  
Hunt:  I finished it here.   
Raiskin:  What major were you?  
Hunt:  I was in the English department, but I mostly studied with the 
ethnographers at that point were in the English Department. Barre 
Tolkien and Sharon Sherman were my main professors. I saw 
Sharon last time I was in town. Yeah, which was wonderful. They 
were just unbelievably good, top flight professors, and really 
influenced a lot of what I went on to make films, and my films were 
really influenced by them.  
Picariello:  And for me, I was turning twenty-eight. It was the Saturn return. I 
was really pretty tired of working so hard, and not having any 
money. So where did I go?  
Hunt:  So you became a rock and roll star  [laughs].  
Picariello:  And I went to Starflower. Because at least I got a salary.  
Hunt:  Yeah, that's true.  
Picariello:  And a lot of food that we gave away. At the time, that was really 
kind of like a solid job.  
Hunt:  It was a solid job for a lot of women.  
Picariello:  Yeah, so that was why— 
Hunt:  Starflower, yeah. We haven't even mentioned Starflower. That was 
an amazing thing.  
Long:  What was your experience working there?   
Hunt:  That was here when we came here.  
Picariello:  I worked in the warehouse, learned to drive a forklift, and met 
some wonderful, wonderful people. Paula Jo Vaden,  Sally Sheklow, 
Sydney Putnam, Laurie—  
Hunt:  I don't remember.  
Picariello:  — McClain.  
Hunt:  McClain.  
Picariello:  Yeah, a lot of— 
Hunt:  Who’s passed. 
Picariello:  Margaret Cormier, a lot of wonderful, wonderful women. We did 
it. We did it.  
Hunt:  Breeze was there.  
Picariello:  Breeze  was there. Yeah. It was great. It was crazy, but it was great. 
The processing was crazy. It was exhausting.  
Raiskin:  What was the— 
Hunt:  You guys were running a big company then.  
Picariello:  Right.  
Raiskin:  What were  your living situations?  
Picariello:  Well, we didn't talk about Lorane.   
Hunt:  Oh, we lived— 
Picariello:  Our back-to-the-land experience.  
Hunt:  Everything was— 
Picariello:  Talk about downwardly mobile.  
Hunt:  That was like money we didn't have.  
Picariello:  Let's just make it harder  on all levels.  
Hunt:  When we first got together, we moved to Lorane. Have you ever 
been out to Lorane?  
Long:  Uh-huh [affirmative].  
Picariello:  The Fitch Camp?  
Hunt:  Yeah, the Fitch Camp out there. Lesbians totally took it for a couple 
years I think we were out there.  
Picariello:  There were like four or five cabins. Only one cabin had a bathroom, 
a tub with hot running water. We had an outhouse.  
Hunt:  Outhouses.  
Picariello:  Yeah, it was definitely fun.  
Hunt:  Yeah, and the walls were like no insolation.  
Picariello:  No insolation.  
Hunt:  We didn't know how to—  
Picariello:  Wood stoves.  
Hunt:  We didn't know how to— You have to go up the hills where they 
logged, and take what was left out of the slash piles for wood. We 
didn't know how to sharpen a saw. We didn't know anything. It 
was crazy. But it was a lot of fun, and there was— 
Long:  How many people lived there?  
Picariello:  How many were— 
Hunt:  Well, counting all the people who came and went and the new 
girlfriends that would show up for X, Y or Z, I don't know. I think 
there were like eight or nine of us that occupied the cabins, who 
actually paid rent there.  
Long:  Can you name some of those women? 
Hunt:  Oh, well, Sage, Thyme. Thea.  
Picariello:  Raven, Moon.  
Hunt:  Yeah.  
Picariello:  We had peyote circles.  
Hunt:  They were all there. We had peyote circles out there. E was out 
there. Was Adrienne out there?  
Picariello:  No. Adrienne was not out there. And again, River Road. Here, The 
Whiteaker, and then River Road.   
Hunt:  Bea. Bea was out there.  
Picariello:  Yeah. Where did you live? The Whiteaker? Some of the uni— 
Hunt:  When we came in. Well, we lived— 
Picariello:  Well, whenever.  
Hunt:  We lived  on Elkay  Drive on— 
Picariello:  And Elkay, yeah.  
Hunt:  And another house out there with Casey. Then I lived in The 
Whiteaker— 
Picariello:  Hansen Lane. 
Hunt:  —with Denise Scaffidi.  
Picariello:  Right.  
Long:  Just for a sec, to go back for a sec, it was called Fitch Camp?  
Picariello:  Mrs. Fitch. Yeah.  
Long:  Mrs. Fitch owned that property?  
Picariello:  Yes. 
Long:  And that was— 
Picariello:  She was alive when we moved in there.  
Hunt:  She lived there, too.   
Picariello:  We could con anyone about anything. We were so charming and so 
young and vibrant.  
Hunt:  She didn't seem to notice that we were lesbians.  
Raiskin:  What was the rent? Do you remember the rent?  
Hunt:  She didn't even— 
Picariello:  Especially E. She could con anyone. Especially old ladies.  
Hunt:  Yeah,  she was good.  
Picariello:  She was great.  
Hunt:  She was good.  
Raiskin:  What were you saying? That you were friends who wanted to live 
on the land?  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And could you rent from her?  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Hunt:  Yeah, yeah. There are people out there now. We went— 
Picariello:  Oh, God.  
Hunt:  We went out there the year that Marilyn and Linda organized the 
forty-year reunion here. And so M and I drove out there, and I  
think there were meth dealers out there then. And so that visit was 
a little scary.  
Picariello:  “Oh, hi.”  
Hunt:  We used to live here.  
Long:  The cabins were still there.  
Picariello:  Oh, they still are.  
Hunt:  The cabins, yeah.  
Picariello:  They're there.  
Hunt:  They're beautiful old wooden— they're weathered, beautiful 
structures. It was a log camp. It was a log camp.  
Long:  Oh, I see.  
Picariello:  Oh, that's right. Yeah.  
Hunt:  Yeah, it had been a log camp.  
Long:  It's on Lorane Highway?  
Hunt:  It is.  
Picariello:  It is. Yes. Still there.  
Hunt:  Way back up there.  
Raiskin:  Now it's meth polluted, huh?   
Hunt:  Well, it was then.  
Picariello:  It was then. I don't think now.  
Hunt:  Then we went one more time.  
Picariello:  Yeah, yeah.  
Hunt:  And it seemed like things had gotten a little better.  
Raiskin:  Poor Mrs. Fitch.  
Hunt:  Well, I think she'd been gone for a while.  
Picariello:  Had gone. She was quite old at the time when we got there.  
Hunt:  We lived out there. I think we planted a garden, but we didn't have 
the wherewithal to even know how to tend at it. Yeah. My mo— 
Long:  You had good intentions.  
Hunt:  We did.  
Picariello:  Always.  
Hunt:  We did.  
Picariello:  Always. Yes, very well spoken.  
Hunt:  We lived out there, and then we really got the bookstore going, 
then we moved into town, and we lived in various places in town. 
We bought a—  
Picariello:  Because it was just too hard.   
Hunt:  —truck I think when we moved to town.  
Picariello:  Yeah, that you called Red China. It was an old— 
Hunt:  Did I call it Red China?  
Picariello:  —Ford, a red Ford.  
Hunt:  Yeah, and we bought it  for $200 or something. It ran on four 
cylinders. It was a six cylinder car. It was crazy. It was crazy.  
Picariello:  But it was okay.  
Hunt:  Yeah, we got by.  
Long:  We're into the— what year did you give up Mother Kali's?  
Hunt:  I think '79.  
Picariello:  We think.  
Hunt:  Yeah. Mar went to San Francisco.  
Picariello:  In the ‘80s. Yeah.  
Hunt:  Yeah, in the early ‘80s.  
Picariello:  And then we returned in 2014.  
Hunt:  You and Linda. Or you first and then Linda.  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Long:  But it broke up.   
Hunt: We did, yeah. At the end of the ‘70s. 
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Hunt:  Or when your— 
Picariello:  Our lover relationship ended, but we continued to be friends. Devi  
and George stood up for us when we got married here, and when 
you and George got married, we stood  up for them. It's been really 
quite wonderful.  
Raiskin:  Can you talk about the marriage rollercoaster in Oregon and how 
you felt about that?  
Picariello:  Well, because we were radical, marriage was never on the table. I 
did not care about marriage for the longest time. And then you get 
older, and then you start acquiring things, and then you realize that 
if your partner or you get sick, you have absolutely no rights, and 
that changed. That changed a lot. We missed it in San Francisco. 
Linda and I did not get married in San Francisco. We missed it. We 
were not— 
Hunt:  Didn't you register for domestic partner?  
Picariello:  Yes, we were because if you worked for the city or for some not-
for-profit, your partner could then take on some of the benefits. 
Again, it was all about money. It was all about healthcare. It was 
about that stuff. Once that started sinking in, after some thirty  years 
of Linda and I being together, we got here and we decided to get 
married because she was having some health issues, and I wanted  
to be on the record as her wife. But it was never because the love 
stuff, we never needed anyone to say— 
Hunt:  Yeah, that was the ethos, was— 
Picariello:  What about you?  
Hunt:  It was love that mattered, and that's what the bonds were. I think 
that was not a bad way to try to live. I think during the AIDS crisis 
that slammed into the communities in the ‘80s, it was proven. A lot 
of lesbians took care of those guys, helped too. There was love 
there. It was done with love. It showed this country how to bury 
your people. It changed forever how death and dying happens in 
this county. I think that's because a loving network of people 
stepped up.  
Picariello:  I decide to leave in the early ‘80s, go to San Francisco, and guess 
what? The AIDS epidemic hits. Bam! I became a volunteer, an 
emotional practical support volunteer for a while, did that. And 
then I worked at Project Open Hand, which made and delivered 
meals for people with AIDS. I did that for over ten years, in 
Volunteer Services and became a manager of Volunteer Services, 
and met a lot of wonderful, wonderful people again. That service 
thing, that community thing definitely continued until 1998 where I 
had the opportunity to go into, believe it or not, residential real 
estate, and I sold residential real estate in San Francisco for about 
fifteen  years, and everything changed. Everything changed in 
terms of my life, in terms of money, in terms of resources. It was  
also the first time that I was around powerful women. Because 
women in San Francisco in real estate run that industry. A lot of 
women run that industry. Gay, straight, whatever. It was the first 
time I was in a community of powerful women, and the difference 
being they had money and they got paid well for what they did. 
That was really amazing.  
 That was really monumental that I ended my work career like that, 
because I had been poor, and then I had money. I have to say, 
having money is way less stressful. It may have other problems, 
but in terms of the stress, the everyday  stress, it was very different. 
My whole idea of selling out and going into profit, for profit, and 
making good money, and meeting these wonderful women that 
made good money and were enormously generous in times of 
donating to nonprofits, in terms of helping each other make a 
living, and giving each other business, it was really eye opening. I 
never expected it. Never expected it.  
Raiskin:  Did it give you second thoughts about the kind of collective life and 
businesses that were operating here or trying to succeed here?  
Picariello:  No. I felt like it was definitely like a process. I probably could not 
have done it without that history or herstory. Definitely not. 
Interesting enough, coming back here in 2014, one of the challenges 
that I did not think was going to happen was all of a sudden I was 
in a community in a town where I didn't know if people knew I 
was a lesbian. Because all of a sudden I'm affluent, I have a home, I 
have a partner. That's a whole other chapter. And all of a sudden it  
was really important to me that I came back and would tell people, 
"Oh, this is my partner. And not only is this my partner, I'm a 
lesbian. That's how I identify. I'm queer." Where in San Francisco 
for twenty-five years, I never did that. I never had to.  
Raiskin:  Why didn't you have to there?  
Picariello:  Because it was so well represented. And also, no one really cared.  
Hunt:  “Queer capital.” 
Picariello:  No one cared. It kind of crossed lines into diversity in a really 
healthy way.  
Raiskin:  Why did you come back here?  
Picariello:  I wanted to retire here. I wanted to come back to a town that I 
really loved. I wanted a slower pace. I have elderly parents, and I 
need to go back home, back East a lot, and I just couldn't handle 
what was happening to San Francisco and the changes there. And I 
sold our house, took the money, and ran, and came back. Linda and 
I started Insight Meditation Sangha because we had started 
meditating down in San Francisco. It had not existed here before 
we got here, so once again, we started something new, and that's 
called Eugene Insight Meditation Community. Just recently, we 
started a smaller queer group for the LGBTAA, anyone that 
identifies that way. We just started that group two months ago as  
an offshoot of Eugene Insight. We're still doing it, still doing it.   
 Devi  and Linda and I have been dharma buddies for over ten years, 
and she just came down on Wednesday night to talk about 
recovery and the dharma, Twelve-Step and the dharma. Was that 
last night?  
Hunt:  It was last night.  
Picariello:  Just last night.  
Hunt:  Just last night. That's what we were doing.  
Picariello:  She and Linda co-led it. The beat goes on.  
Hunt:  It's sweet.  
Raiskin:  Why did you leave Eugene?  
Hunt:  Well, Marilyn was gone, and Jo  and Marilyn had moved to San 
Francisco by then. I guess people were leaving. The community 
had kind of wound down and run through its energy. Yeah, that's 
really why I left. I landed back in Seattle to help take care of my 
mother, who became very ill when I was in my mid-thirties. So I 
did that.  
Raiskin:  What work did you do in Seattle?  
Hunt:  I finished my degree here, and then I worked in a food bank for a 
while, and ran a program for them. And then I went to work for 
public television in Seattle. I worked at the PBS affiliate in Seattle. 
And then I decided, I got it into my head that I would make my  
own films. My first film had its international premiere at the Venice 
Film Festival in Italy. That was pretty thrilling and wonderful.  
Raiskin: What kind of film was it?  
Hunt:  It was a film about a homeless girl. Yeah. Some of the things that 
mattered earlier, went on mattering a lot.  
Picariello:  Yes!  
Hunt:  This was in the ‘80s, I guess was it? Early ‘90s by then. But the food 
bank was in the  late ‘80s. The food banks were just full of people 
because of the policies of Ronald Reagan. I made it about a girl who 
lived in homeless shelters with her family in Seattle, called No Place 
Like Home, and went all over the world as a film. Went on to make 
other films as well for a while. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  That's great.  
Hunt:  Yeah, and then I worked as a freelance writer after filmmaki ng. I 
took a year off from filmmaking. I thought I'd go back to do more 
films, but I took a year off, and began a book of poems instead 
because poetry had always been my love all those years. That's 
what I pursued ever since. I earned my living until a couple years 
ago as a freelance writer for a foundation, several foundations. 
Foundation in Baltimore called the Annie E. Casey  Foundation, and 
the Bellmill and the Bill and Melinda Gates  Foundation, and other 
foundations that needed help with websites and copy, and stuff 
like that. And just kept writing. I have a book of poems in print,  
and I'm trying to find a publisher for my second book. Yeah. 
Working on some new work.  
Raiskin:  Do you consider yourselves retired or just still working?  
Hunt:  No. I don't. I don't.  
Picariello:  I don't work for money anymore, so yes, I consider myself retired. I 
just do the things I want to do.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any thoughts — I've been asking people who are 
looking at retirement  that are living differently now, any thoughts 
you have about aging as lesbians?  
Hunt:  Well, I'm bisexual. I have a husband now. So you— 
Picariello:  I'm giggling because I broke my ankle here in May, and so for the 
last three and a half months or so, I've been really dealing with that. 
In Buddhist terms, they call it the three heavenly messengers. Old 
age, sickness, and death. So there we are. I'm trying to do it 
gracefully. This particular summer has been really, really hard. But 
I have enough knowledge and wherewithal to deal with it 
hopefully in healthier ways than feeling like a victim, or why did 
this happen to me. Yeah. I'm really glad to be in a small town, 
aging  in a small town. The pace is way easier to age in, I think. It's 
good. It's okay.  
Hunt:  You guys, in terms of being two girls together, you feel like you 
have legal protections that you need?   
Picariello:  Yes.  
Hunt:  You guys have all your ducks in a row, anyway?  
Picariello:  I think we do.  
Hunt:  With your finances and stuff? Yeah.  
Picariello:  Absolutely. Long-term  care — Who would've imagined?  
Hunt:  Yeah, right.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any concerns about long-term  care as lesbians if you 
were to go into a retirement home or assisted living?  
Picariello:  We'll see. We'll have to wait and see. Right now the idea is we have 
a single family home that's on one level, and recently we added a 
room and a bathroom which we jokingly call for our aide when we 
need him or her to come and live with us.  So, we'll see. We'll see.  
Raiskin:  Can you ask you about your self identification as bisexual?  
Hunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  You're married to a man now?  
Hunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Raiskin:  We have talked to other lesbians who have married— 
Hunt:  Have you?   
Raiskin:  Yes. People have different attitudes about what they call 
themselves.  
Hunt:  Right.  
Raiskin:  I'm wondering why you choose bisexual, or have you put thought 
into that?  
Hunt:  Yeah, of course. Well, I don't know. It's been really hard in some 
ways. There are people who are really angry at me for that, for the 
fact that I got together with Georgie. But other dear friends are just, 
continued on as a community. George was in the Red and Black 
bookstore collective, so he was surrounded by the girls. I know the 
lesbian community, so I know that many of the women I knew had 
either slept with men or occasionally still slept with men. It wasn't 
all black and white ever as much as it maybe was supposed to look. 
I think I felt that attitude pretty keenly at times. And oddly, it was 
so odd because George worked in this collective of women. I think 
there were a few other men in that collective or something. But I 
really felt like I got the brunt of the pissed off-ness, some of which I 
think was because there were other women in that collective who 
would just as soon slept with George. Really.  
 You can kind of feel a sense of jealousy. I always felt there was 
some of that going on too. It's just crazy. But I feel like human 
sexuality is on a continuum. People may shift and change around 
that. They may have feelings that they never act on. I would say in 
terms of my own process, I'm like Jimmy Carter, I have lust in my  
heart for  others. I think I've had lust in my heart for one man in the 
last thirty years besides my husband, Georgie. But there are quite a 
few women I could have imagined riding off into the sunset with. 
That's who I am. But we have those letters in that great long list of 
the alphabet list now, and I think because I often introduce myself 
— I let new people in my life know who I am and who I've been 
with in my life. It's almost always awkward to announce that, 
because you have to announce it, otherwise the default  assumption 
is that I'm someone I'm not. But I don't fit neatly anymore.  
 My AA sponsor is trans, and the things she lives with in the world 
are really, really tough. And so, out of respect for other folks, I 
make a choice to say that. Now, the “B” in that list is gratuitous. It's 
totally gratuitous. There's no “B” that anybody gives any respect to 
in that list. I don't think so. It doesn't seem to me.  
Raiskin:  What would respect look like?  
Hunt:  That's a feeling, that's a lack of tolerance. I understand  the lack of 
tolerance. I think I know pretty well what that comes out of. I'm old 
enough to have remembered when there were black curtains over 
the windows in the doors of all the gay bars in Seattle, here, 
everywhere. How tough it was, how hard it was to  "lose 
somebody" out of the community and stuff. I think I understand it, 
and still I think it is a failure of tolerance on some level. What was 
your question?  
Raiskin:  That's what I was asking you, is how you understand bisexual.   
Hunt:  Yeah. I think— 
Raiskin:  As that term of identity, how you feel about it.  
Hunt:  Yeah, I would say it's there in the list, but it really doesn't exist. Not 
in the men's culture, not in the women's culture too much. Except 
with the kids. The younger people. It just doesn't matter in the 
same way. I think that's that. I don't have to live with the same 
issues that lesbians do, even now.  
Raiskin:  What do you mean?  
Hunt:  Well, I'm with a guy. People do make an assumption that isn't 
always comfortable to me, but in the world, it can function.  
Long:  Can you give some examples of privilege?  
Hunt:  Yeah. This is an example of privilege I think: If somebody's going to 
come over and do a repair on the house, or just comes to my door, 
like some guys did last month because the water company, the city 
water was doing something in the neighborhood and had to tell me 
about a turn-off. I could say to them, "I don't know but my husband 
will be back in a while," and that was my signal, and you won't be. 
I can feel safer here because I'm going to tell you, another man 
that's going to enter this property, and you'll have to deal with him. 
I'm not alone, in that way. So I think that's a way that it functions in 
the world. Or on the telephone, if you call. I can say, "I don't know. 
I can ask my husband about that." It's a signal that you fit in this  
slot, and nobody's going to consider certain things anymore. I  think 
that's how it's always functioned.  
Raiskin:  It's protection.  
Hunt:  It is. Yeah, in a sense. My mother, when she divorced my father, 
she initiated the end of her marriage when I was ten, and our world 
changed radically because she no longer had my father there. She 
was a single woman in a neighborhood of people who are all 
hooked up with others. She was a dangerous woman from the day 
he moved out. We knew it. We could feel it. She was treated that 
way. She was very straight. But that's how it worked, you know?  
Picariello:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Hunt:  My dear friends who are straight know that about me. But still, it's 
very different than being with my lesbian friends because I feel like 
they know all of me in a real way. I think my other girlfriends— 
well, they just don't know. They just don't know the life. They've 
probably never been even inside a gay bar these days. Or whatever. 
We don't go to gay bars.  
Picariello:  No. 
Hunt:  We haven't in years.  
Long:  Where would you find one?  
Hunt:  Yeah. Those were the other great places to meet people and have 
community.   
Picariello:  There was a while there in San Francisco where lesbian was a thing 
of the past. No one said they were a lesbian.  
Hunt:  What did they say?  
Picariello:  Queer.  
Hunt:  Yeah.  
Picariello: Queer. You were queer or fluid.  
Hunt:  And you named your Sangha though, the Q Sangha. Queer Sangha.  
Picariello:  Yeah. Queer because there's so many letters.  
Hunt:  Letters.  
Picariello:  So that's why it's—  
Hunt:  I had Linda say them last night, and there were like eight or nine 
letters. I didn't even know what the last three stood for. I was, 
“Wow.”  
Picariello:  An A is allies.  
Hunt:  More power to you.  
Picariello:  I love that one. It's like, actually anyone can come.  
Hunt:  More power to you. Yeah,  the LBGTB AA meeting in Port 
Townsend is, “And the people who love them.”  
Picariello:  Yeah, there you go.   
Hunt:  So, whoever.  
Picariello:  Adding these different letters, and “A” being alliance is absolutely 
wonderful. Back in the ‘70s, that would never,  we would never 
have thought about that, that we needed allies. Growing up in San 
Francisco for all those years, we came to understand that the only 
way things were going to really change lawfully was if everyone 
wanted it, including everyone. That's how things happened. The 
other side of that was that lesbian became— 
Hunt:  Who's that  
Picariello:  —became antiquated. The other cute story I want to say about 
living in San Francisco for so long, when we were deciding to 
move, and I was donating to Saint Vinnie's a lot, the guys would 
come over and take the stuff that we were donating. And at one 
point, one of the guys said to me, "Oh, this is a really nice piece of 
furniture. Does your husband know you're giving this away?" And 
I went, "Yeah. Yeah, it's not a problem." Before they left, he came to 
me and apologized that he thought I had a husband. That's very 
San Francisco.  
Raiskin:  How did he? Oh, not even knowing, he apologized?  
Picariello:  Well, he apologized because he looked at the rest of the house, and 
all the tchotchkes  and pictures and whatever. That's very San 
Francisco. “I'm sorry that I assumed you had a husband.” That's 
pretty cool.   
Hunt:  And so now we're going to go— well,  we've done this forever. The 
four of us travel together.  
Picariello:  Yes.  
Hunt:  Yeah.   
Picariello:  I know it's— 
Hunt:  It's ten years this, ten years that.  
Picariello:  Something else I can say.  
Hunt:  Then we go, "Oh, we have to go here, we have to go there."  
Picariello:  When Linda's parents would come and visit, who are very  Jewish 
New Yorkers, God bless them, and we would be sitting in a 
restaurant, the four of us, many times we would be laughing and 
having a good time. And people would come up to us and say to 
me and Linda, "Are you sisters? Are you cousins? What's going on  
here?" Irvin, her father, at the time would go, "Idiot." We'd go, "No, 
we're not." So that's the other side of it. And he would go, "Idiot."  
Hunt:  Who did he mean was the idiot?  
Picariello:  Them for saying, "What, are you, cousins?"  
Hunt:  Oh.  
Picariello: But that's the assumption.  
Hunt:  Yeah.   
Picariello:  Two women together must be sisters or something.  
Hunt:  And then M's father was a jewelry setter, right? Is a diamond setter.  
Picariello:  Was.  
Hunt:  Was.  
Picariello:  Yes.  
Hunt:  In kind of a Jewish neighborhood.  
Picariello:  Industry.  
Hunt:  Industry.  
Picariello:  Yes. 
Hunt:  In New York, ended up making the rings, right?  
Picariello:  Right.  
Hunt:  For Beulah, for Linda's mom and her second husband.  
Picariello:  And she has that ring. We got married with that ring. He passed 
away last year. So you see, it all works out. It all works out.  
Raiskin:  Well, given that perspective on like, you could imagine a young 
person watching this interview. What might you tell them about 
life? Or  advice to give?  
Hunt:  Read poetry.  
Raiskin:  Why?   
Hunt:  Why? Because it's intimate speech, and we have too few 
opportunities to speak to each other in our most intimate voices. It's 
a way to go inside your life, which is in fact a much larger than 
your singular life. You can find all  that in poetry. You can find 
worlds upon worlds in poetry. Read more poetry.  
Picariello:  I would say love yourself, that it's all okay, and that there's simply 
more unity here than you think. And be kind.  
Hunt:  You are so,  my guru.  
Picariello:  Actually, that's from Ellen. You could hear her say that every day.  
Hunt:  Oh, really?  
Picariello:  Be kind to one another. But there's a reason. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Ellen DeGeneres?  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Hunt:  Oh, that's so funny. That's so you, though.  
Picariello:  Yeah.  
Hunt:  That's so you.  
Raiskin:  Thank you very much.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Picariello:  Thank you.   
Hunt:  Oh, thank you. It's really fun.  
Picariello:  Thank you very much.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  