Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview  with Sarah Douglas on July 31, 2018 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO Department of Women's Gender 
and Sexuality Studies.  
 Sarah, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the university to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.   
Douglas:  Yes, I give permission for the interview and also the distribution or 
circulation of any of the media documents that come out of it.  
Long:  Okay.  Wonderful. Thank you very much. Why don't we go ahead 
and just ask you a basic question. Can you please tell us where you 
were born, where you grew up, and something about your early 
background?  
Douglas:  Yes. Do you want my birthdate?  
Long:  Sure.  
Douglas:  I can give that. Yeah. January 25, 1944, just at the very end of the 
Second World War. I was born in Asheville, North Carolina. We 
were there only maybe three or four months. Both my father and 
my grandfather were in the Navy, in the Civil Engineering Corps 
and they were at war. My grandfather had decided to move the 
women of his family to Asheville, North Carolina as being a very 
safe place in case we were invaded. And so I was there born, my 
mother was pregnant. I was the first grandchild, actually on both 
sides of the family. My mother was there with her three sisters and 
my grandmother. It was a very female oriented, matriarchal-
oriented thing.  
 After about three or four months, we moved to Harrisburg, 
Pennsylvania where we joined my grandmother's sisters, three 
sisters, Sarah, Ann, and Ruth. I am named after two of them. So I'm 
Sarah Ann. Then we moved again, and this time my mother moved 
to some Navy base somewhere, I think in Rhode Island. My father  
was still absent. He had visited once or twice and I didn't really see 
my father till I was almost three or four years old. And at that time, 
we moved to Bermuda. Now the reason for this was my father was 
involved in the war in the Pacific and the invasion of Okinawa and 
everything and all of that didn't seem to settle down and end until 
that period of time.  
 About 1947, '48, we moved to Bermuda. Then from there on, the 
rest of my life until about seventeen, it was one move after the 
other, either one or two years and sometimes even less than that. 
We lived in a lot of different places in the United States. Also in the 
Philippines, in Bermuda. I have two sisters that were born in those 
places. And then for a period of time we lived in Virginia, but we 
moved for several places from Norfolk, Virginia to Northern 
Virginia. I started high school there in Virginia, in McLean, 
Virginia. I was in my sophomore, and junior year, we moved to 
Newport, Rhode Island.  
 Then the final year of my high school, my father retired from the 
Navy and decided that the whole family would move to California 
and he was going to begin in Ph.D. study at Stanford University in 
civil engineering. And so we all moved and I spent my last year of 
high school  in Palo Alto.  
Long:  Palo Alto High School?  
Douglas:  Not Palo Alto High School. It was Cubberley, which doesn't exist 
anymore. It sort of grew up in the '50s and then they did away with  
it maybe ten years after I graduated. And then they had created a 
new high school called Gunn High School where my two sisters, 
and by  that time a brother who's fifteen  years younger than I am, 
they all attended that. From there I went two years to Smith 
College. I had a full scholarship because my dad was a PhD student 
at age 45. And from— 
Long:  Sarah,  what year did you start at Smith?  
Douglas:  1962.  
Long:  Okay.  
Douglas:  Yes. And after two years there, I was very unhappy. I don't know. I 
was sort of a science major, not sort of, I was a science major. I 
wanted to do medical research in biochemistry and such. I was 
aiming towards a science career, but that was not a good place to 
choose if you wanted to really do science. I took all the science 
courses they had there. Then I also in the summertime, my senior 
year in high school that summer before going to college, I got a 
telephone  call from the school district and the school district was 
getting a computer and they had asked the high school who their 
good math students were and I was named. They asked me if I'd 
like to learn how to program a computer.  
 It was a commitment, all the years that I was in college I would 
come  back and work every summer. I learned how to program a 
computer and immediately it was this incredible fusion of both 
mathematics and language because programming languages are  
languages and I was just fascinated.  I worked there every summer 
while I was in college. In my second year at Smith, I was getting 
really unhappy with the science stuff and I was also getting a lot 
more politically involved in things, and the civil rights movement 
was going on. And so I came to the conclusion that I should 
transfer to the University of California  at Berkeley and also that I 
should switch majors.  
 Now, what happened, I switched to philosophy. So I graduated 
with a degree in philosophy. I actually have enough for a degree in 
biochemistry, too. But philosophy was the thing because during the 
summer after everybody went home, I would play with the 
computer and I tried to get it to answer questions in English about 
biology. I had a little database, we would call it, of biology 
information. And I had simple questions that you wanted to ask in 
English. So I'd have to parse those. So I took courses in the 
summertime in linguistics and grammar and all of those sort of 
things and I decided that I needed to figure out how to put 
meaning in the computer.  
 I thought, Well, where do they know about meaning? And I 
thought, ”Philosophy.” So I switched without ever having taken a 
philosophy course, I switched to philosophy and graduated from 
Berkeley with a degree in philosophy and my father was just 
distraught. He said, "How on earth are you going to earn a living?" 
And such and so forth. And I said, "That's okay. I know how to 
program a computer and I believe that I will always have some sort  
of vocational opportunities in that."  And I couldn't have been more 
right. I mean, it was absolutely true because my whole career then, 
both working and academic, is in computer science. So that's how 
that happened.  
 After I graduated from Berkeley in 1966, it was the free speech 
movement times. It was civil rights. It was anti-Vietnam. I was so 
upset with the United States that I left the country for a year and a 
half and lived in Europe, lived mostly in Spain and in a little 
second-third class pension. I had a one-way ticket to London and 
$1,000. And I sort of ran out of money about halfway through. I 
worked as a tourist guide for a Spanish bus company at an English 
resort on the north end of the Island of Majorca. Most people don't 
know about all these things.  
Raiskin: Can I back up a little bit?  
Douglas:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: And  ask you— in high school or when you went to Smith, did you 
identify as a lesbian?  
Douglas:  No, I did not. In fact, when I was at Berkeley, my house, in the 
house that I was sharing with other people, there was a woman 
who was a lesbian and a very good friend of mine. We had gone to 
high school together, but she was ambivalent about that. And she  
had fallen in love with another woman in high school and the 
parents had come down really hard on them. I did know a little bit 
about that  [her sexuality], but I didn't have any real identification.   
I went away to Europe for a year and a half. And then  when I came 
back, I started programming computers again because I decided 
that if I wanted to change the system, I had to be here to change the 
system.  
 So this was a radical departure from my parents who were 
obviously Navy, very conservative, staunch Republicans. I'd grown 
up that way. I loved Eisenhower, but in college and particularly at 
Smith with the civil rights movement and then at Berkeley, of 
course, everything just blew up. I mean, I just began to realize what 
was going on and that really affected me.  
I became quite a liberal radical person, at least according to my 
parents. I worked for almost fifteen  years and I was in computing 
in the production end, I had groups of people that programmed for 
me and did design of systems and things like that.  
 I was the chief “architect,” quote unquote, of the admission's 
application system for all twenty-two California state universities. 
So it was one of the first applications. This is very early in 
computing, very early. That went on for a long time and  I ended up 
being the computer data processing director at Cabrillo 
Community College in Santa Cruz. I moved over to Santa Cruz and 
from there, one of my mother's friends took me out to lunch and 
she said, "How's everything going?" And she and my mother  were 
feminists. I mean, they really were. She said to me, "What are you 
doing here?" And I said, "Oh, I'm just bored. But I love Cabrillo. I 
love the Santa Cruz community." And by this time I was a lesbian.  
So I would say 1968 is when I became a lesbian after I came back 
from Europe and I fell in love with the very woman who was in my 
house at Berkeley.  
 And we are still friends. She lives in Jerusalem now. She's been in 
Israel for almost thirty  years and we are very close friends. Santa 
Cruz community was fantastic in terms of being a lesbian but I was 
not out. I mean, in the educational environment one did not do 
that, but I knew many lesbians of course, in Eugene  and I mean, in 
Santa Cruz. The result of this lunch with my mother's friend, I 
decided to apply for a Ph.D. program in computer science. So at 
thirty  four, I went to graduate school for the first time and I spent 
five years at Stanford and got a Ph.D. And I was almost forty  years 
old when I was out on the job market looking for a job as an 
assistant professor.  
 And that's how I ended up coming to Eugene, is that I accepted a 
job here at the university. But then I should make this point. At that 
point in time, there was huge demand for anybody that had a 
degree in computer science like that and especially from Stanford. I 
could have really gone anywhere and I did not want, first of all, I 
did not want to go to any of the Ivy League schools because you 
would go there and then you would not get tenure. I didn't want 
that. I was too old and I also wanted a lesbian community. And so 
it was Eugene that spoke to me and my partner at the time who 
was Namascar  Shaktini. You may know her, Julee.   
 She had a Ph.D. in the History of Consciousness from Santa Cruz 
and was a comparative literature person, but primarily women's 
studies and worked on Monique Wittig, a French writer, French 
lesbian feminist writer.  
We had done some research and we knew about the women's land 
in Oregon, and we talked to people and we got a connection to 
Marlene Drescher here in Eugene and they just told us what a great 
lesbian community it was. And so I accepted the job at the U of O. 
We did not go to women’s land  because we couldn't figure out how 
we could support ourselves. I accepted a job in the Computer 
Science Department at the U of O and Namascar taught off and on 
in the French Department. And we were immediately embraced by 
CSWS and— 
Raiskin: —and Women’s Studies— 
Douglas:  —Joan Acker and Marilyn Farwell and many, the few lesbians 
that— none of us were out. Marsha Mabrey  in the Music School 
who later, unfortunately, did not get tenure. She was African  
American and one of the only— I should point this out, the biggest 
concern I had about coming here to Eugene was racism. And I 
knew about this because at Stanford I ran into a woman in the 
comparable CSWS down there. I ran into a woman who was 
Japanese and had been here teaching in the Linguistics Department 
and had terrible experience and she was very upset. So, I knew 
right from the beginning. I also did some analysis of the history of  
Oregon and Eugene and I knew that blacks and Jews couldn't own 
property until 1948, I think, and the Constitution changed.  
 But I was very concerned. I could see it was very, very white. But, I 
said coming back from Europe, you can go there and you can try to 
change things. And so I really right from the beginning was 
involved in the university and trying to make changes here at the 
university. So there you have it.  
Raiskin: Why do you think that your colleagues who were gay and lesbian 
were not out at that time?  
Douglas:  Well, this is a very important question. Technically, at that time at 
the U of O, we did have a rule that Dom Vetri in the Law School 
had managed to get on the books. And we are talking about OARs. 
This is before the university became private-public and had its own 
independent board as it does today. It was part of the Oregon 
University System and there were a set of rules for each university 
as well  as overall for the whole system. And in late 1970s, Dom  had 
managed to get a non-discrimination on faculty for sexual 
orientation. He had managed to get that in there.  
 But in general, you knew, for example, moral turpitude is the 
biggest reason for eliminating your tenure if you manage to get 
tenure. And of course, the two are always connected because 
getting tenure means you have to be tenurable, which means that 
you wouldn't have any moral turpitude. So the whole issue, the 
whole social issue, there was one of intense discrimination. And so  
I led two lives. I had a private life in the lesbian community and a 
few lesbians here at the university but I was not out until I got 
tenure. And— 
Long:  What year was that?  
Douglas:  Nineteen eighty-seven,  I believe.  I came here in 1983 and I guess 
tenure would have been '87, '88. Moral turpitude has to do with 
your behavior. And at that time there were anti-sodomy laws in 
Oregon. And in fact, there was a case of a woman who was, I think 
a PE teacher on the coast who had a relationship with a student and 
she was charged with sodomy. I mean, how do women commit 
sodomy? But there was danger out there. My department 
suspected, I believe, although I lived out in Veneta on a farm or 
outside of Veneta, even, on a farm. And I just really maintained two 
separate lives and almost all of the women faculty here were in the 
closet. I mean, really, I mean, there were suspicions, but we were all 
pretty much in the closet.  
 And then I got tenure and then we had the task force  on Lesbian 
and Gay Affairs.  
Long:  Before we get to the task force— 
Douglas:  That was, yes— 
Long:  Yeah, that was a big moment to have the task force. But let's go 
back a little bit. Can you tell us what Eugene— how you found 
Eugene and what Eugene was like—  
Douglas:  Oh yeah. Sure.  
Long:  — and have you had this kind of dual existence?  
Douglas:  Yeah. Well, I was used to living a dual existence. I really didn't 
come out to my parents until, oh, I guess I was almost fifty years 
old. I mean, there was never any question with my siblings and my 
parents knew but they never acknowledged it and they  never 
talked about it. There was this duality thing. But within Eugene 
and in the lesbian community, people were totally out and I just 
loved having a community of people. So there was Marlene 
Drescher and at that time she was with Eva Bever who is a real 
estate agent. We met Marilyn  Farwell and Marsha  Mabrey  in the 
Music School. And there were a number of other women in the 
community, Christine Frazer, who ran this garage, women's— sort 
of like a co-op garage.  
 She was also in Starflower. And Jamie King and Laverne 
Gagehabib, who's no longer here but was one of the only other 
black women in the community. She and her partner, I think Jan 
McLaughlin or Loughlin or something like that. And I mean, again, 
just a total lack of diversity. I mean, just very disturbing to me. I 
was involved at the university for years in affirmative action and 
with the black community here and such, but it was rare.  
So, there were a lot of women that were living outside of the 
university. There was Mother Kali’s  bookstore, which was kind of 
the center of the community in many ways. And Izzie Harbaugh   
and Lorraine Ironplow  who was her partner. They lived out in the 
Veneta area. So we sometimes went over to their house.  
 I broke up with Namascar in about 1986 and so I really didn't have 
any permanent partners until I became involved with Marie Vitulli, 
who's in the Math Department here and that was about 1994. So I 
was a single dyke. I had a lot of friends who kept wanting me to 
put things in the Weekly  and all that. But, yeah, the community was 
very much a community. And then it started, times changed and 
things started to split off. I don't know, at the university here, I 
knew Julee, I knew her partner Mary, who came, I don't know in 
1985, 1987.  
Raiskin: Eighty-seven. 
Douglas:  Yeah. There was a whole group of us. We would sometimes go 
skiing and sometimes do things like that, but we also had these 
country dykes. We had a group of women that lived in the country 
and we called ourselves the Country Dykes, and that was Kathy 
Niebel, who's still here in Eugene, was working for FedEx, as a 
driver for FedEx. All these wonderful women. Eva  Bever, of course, 
still had her place out in Veneta and I had bought this farm just a  
block away from her house. There was a lot of stuff going on there.  
Raiskin: Did you ever feel fearful living in the country?  
Douglas:  No. I had lived in the country mostly as an adult. I lived in a cabin 
in redwood canyon in Santa Cruz. Living in the country itself was 
not anything that I was afraid of. And of course, we haven't got to  
the OCA yet, but I left all my doors unlocked in Veneta and my car 
unlocked and everything. And when we moved into Eugene in 
1991  [2001], I had the opposite. I was fearful, but that has to do with 
general criminal issues or whatever. And you're at— 
Raiskin: I meant as a lesbian  living in the country.  
Douglas:  Yeah, I did not, I did not feel that. The whole neighborhood was a 
pretty progressive neighborhood and we were very out within that 
neighborhood and there were straight people and conservative 
people. In fact, well, we'll get to that later about the OCA, but the 
mayor of Veneta and his wife were both staunch members of the 
Republican Party at that time, but it was the old Republican Party. 
And then when the OCA stuff happened, I testified before the city 
council out—I was  out, and they were incredibly  supporting and 
such. I had more fear at the university to tell you the truth because 
of the things that I did later with the task force. I was very out. I 
was out there. I got death threats and all kinds of lovely, 
anonymous things.  
Long:  Can I ask about  the farm you had? In what way was it a farm? And 
why did you want to have a farm if you did not grow up on a 
farm?  
Douglas:  No, I was a suburban kid for the most part, but I loved the country 
and I'd spent a lot of time in my youth hiking and camping and I 
loved nature. I lived in Santa Cruz in this cabin on a creek in a 
redwood canyon for almost twelve  years. I mean, it was pretty  
primitive. I just love living in the country. I love being in the 
country. I think because of nature, the nature connections, the trees. 
One of the reasons that we very much wanted— Namascar and I 
very much wanted to leave the San Francisco Bay Area was 
because we could not afford to buy a house. The prices or the cost 
of living was just skyrocketing.  
 And we were now both academics and it was really hopeless. It 
was just impossible to— I had a small house in Santa Cruz, which I 
had near the Cabrillo  College and I sold that. I was able to sell that 
and take the money and then buy this farm in Veneta. It was not 
really the farm  per se, but the fact that we were in the country. Both 
of us were novices and Namascar wanted goats. The first thing that 
happened was we got goats and two of them were pregnant, and 
they had three babies. And of course, we were milking and we had 
to learn how to milk and all of that. We had chickens, we had a 
giant garden, we had cats and dogs, that kind of thing. But more 
than anything, it was in the country and there was space and trees 
and you could see the moonrise and, etc. 
Raiskin: What was your involvement with some of these measures? You 
referred to the Oregon Citizens Alliance and around, so the dates 
and the task force, how those things intersected.  
Douglas:  Yeah. Well, the task force started in 1989 and originally the chair of 
the task force was appointed by Olum, who was the president then 
because we had had an incident with a gay student who had run 
for student body president. And he had been just lambasted with  
all kinds of discriminatory, awful stuff. So, the president,  and I 
think also triggered by Cheyney. Cheyney  is very much— 
Raiskin: Cheyney  Ryan?  
Douglas:  Cheyney  Ryan was very much pro-student and very— he had been 
a conscientious objector in the Vietnam War. I mean, there was a 
whole group of us on campus that had all those experiences. He 
convinced the president that we should form a task force to look at 
the problem, at what the experience was for gay and lesbian 
people. Well, they didn't use the word lesbian, the gay people. Now 
there had been three, I believe, three other  presidents of the student 
body association who were lesbians and they were in fact, taunted 
and such with pornographic— I mean, it was awful. But it had not 
become the issue that it was when the gay man, and unfortunately I 
can't remember his name right now. When he ran for office, he did 
not win.  
 Cheyney  was appointed the chair of this task force. And 
immediately there was an uproar from those of us on campus. By 
this time I was totally out because I had gotten tenure and this is 
1989, in summer of 1989. I was totally out. Somehow the discussion 
came that one of us should be co-chairing that committee.  
Raiskin: One of us being?  
Douglas:  One of us lesbians. And that was partly because we needed the 
gender balance. And we also thought that whoever was the chair of 
this or involved with it should have some stake in the community  
and really know. And so somehow, I mean, I said “Yes.” So, I'm 
going to do it. I volunteered and Cheyney  was very welcoming. He 
was fantastic to work with. He had a lot more political experience 
that than I did at working in the university with these things. And 
so we started the task force and it ran until 1991, I believe. I'm not 
sure. I think it was 1991.  
Long:  And for clarification, it was— 
Douglas:  No, 1990. Sorry. 
Long:  Okay. UO president Myles Brand  established the task force?  
Douglas:  No, it was Olum who established the task force.  
Long:  Oh. 
Douglas:  Yes. And Brand inherited it.  
Long:  I see.  
Douglas:  I think it was during the summer. It was right before Brand came. 
Do you know what dates Brand was here?  
Long:  I don't.  
Douglas:  Yeah. Because I'm pretty sure Olum is the one that started it. And 
he had no idea what he was doing with the two of us, both 
Cheyney  and I. We were really out to do something. We had 
twenty-one members of the task force, most of them were straight.  
Long:  Do you remember who some of those members were?   
Douglas:  Yeah. Actually, I have a copy of the task force report. And in that it 
lists all of the task force members here and additional participants 
and consultants. We had people on the faculty, we had students, 
we had staff. I don't believe we had any community members, but 
we had people like Shirley Wilson who was the Dean of Students 
who I think we all suspected was a lesbian, but she wasn't out. We 
had Dom Vetri, who was from the Law School who was the only— 
he was out. We had a number of other people. I don't know who I 
should mention here, but many of them were straight people that 
we brought in to work on issues. We met regularly and at the end 
of this, we decided on a survey.  
 And a lot of this was in some sense what I was trained and 
interested in because of the work that I do in computer science. We 
did a survey of the faculty and students both straight and not, all 
around the university to look at the issue of homophobia on the 
campus. And the results of that were very, very important for the 
committee.  
But we also looked at things like, we looked at curriculum and 
instruction in lesbian and gay studies and there was just nothing at 
that time, very little. Dom  taught a course on legal issues and that 
had been about it. And then in summertime, once in a while, there 
might be a course where the word lesbian was mentioned through 
Women's Studies, but that was the worst. But we looked at all 
kinds of things.   
 We ended up writing this report, and this report is anonymous, 
intentionally anonymous. Basically I wrote most of it and put it 
together, but I got help from Mary  Wood and Anne Laskaya  in the 
English Department. We spent one summer taking all this stuff that 
had been collected and putting it together. But it is a result of the 
whole group. And because of my feminist background, my rather 
radical feminist background, I believe very much that it should be 
very non-hierarchical. That this was something that came out of all 
of us.  
Raiskin: What were the  findings of the survey?  
Douglas:  I have something for you. Let's see. This is a letter May 31, 1991 
when the task force ended, to Myles Brand. We recommended over 
a hundred items for change on the university campus, but there 
were some top ones, really important ones. And one of them was to 
establish in the student services office under the Dean of Students, 
a position specifically for lesbian and gay students. We added the 
word lesbian to the Gay Task Force. We added “lesbian.” By the 
time we ended some of this, I think we had added the word 
bisexual also. Let me just show you, this says, "Dear President 
Brand, the Task Force on Lesbian and Gay Concerns," and notice I 
got lesbian first, right? Because of my feminist issues. "Has major 
concerns about the existing practices of acknowledging, advising, 
investigating, and resolving issues of discrimination and 
harassment against members of protected groups on this campus.   
 We acknowledge the value in having the formal grievance policies 
and procedures examined from a legal perspective as Pete Swan, 
Melinda Greer  and Alison Baker are doing currently. We also 
applaud the public disclosure and discussion which has 
surrounded their efforts. At the same time, we wish to draw your 
attention to the fact that this process in and of itself is not enough. 
Two major surveys we did on campus last year, one of lesbian, gay, 
and bisexual students and another of all faculty and staff indicate to 
us that there are enormous problems with the existing system 
relative to individuals who experience both discrimination and 
harassment as a result of their sexual orientation.  
 And while this data does not speak for women in general, or 
people of color or any of the other groups, it strongly suggests that 
they may be experiencing similar problems."  
Douglas:  The rest of this letter is a summary of the findings of the survey. 
And just top level, one half, 54  percent  of the gay and lesbian and 
bisexual students reported being verbally harassed or threatened. 
Nearly one-third of lesbian, gay, and bisexual faculty and staff 
reported being verbally harassed or threatened. Now, among 
heterosexuals, only 2  percent  have been verbally harassed or 
threatened and less than 1  percent  reported experiencing a sexual 
harassment, physical confrontation or assault on the basis of sexual 
orientation.  
 We were making the case here that the university needed to do a 
whole bunch of things. And with Myles Brand, we had several  
things happen immediately after this report. So this was presented 
in May 1991. Let's see if I have my dates here. I can't, yeah. The task 
force report just precedes that and is basically a response to the lack 
of action, lack of response. Pete Swan was the lawyer for the 
university and they were just trying to say, “Okay, nice job, good 
thing that you're committing to this.” And actually things got 
pretty wild after that. We had the case of Greg Johnson. So, have 
you— maybe heard about Greg Johnson? And one of the things 
that happened, and this was just before the report came out.  
 In October 11, 1990, there was an instructor at the Law School 
named Greg Johnson and he was an instructor. He wasn't a tenured 
faculty member. And on Coming Out Day October 11, 1990, he 
came out to his class and had them read, it was a legal writing 
class, and had them read a law case that had to do with sexual 
orientation discrimination, anti-sodomy. And people in the class 
complained to the Dean of the Law School about this and there was 
a huge uproar. It got to the point where there were meetings, large  
meetings in lecture halls with the students. This was the '90s, too, 
the early, late '80s and '90s. I mean, we had a lot of political stuff 
going on on campus.  
 What happened was that I got pulled into this. Cheyney  did not 
want to be pulled into it,  but I got pulled into it. And of course, I 
immediately wrote a letter to the president and said that I was 
horrified at what had been going on and they were basically firing 
this guy. I don't know how this got out, but I get a call from The  
Register-Guard, from a reporter at The Register-Guard  who basically 
on the headlines on the front page says, “Gay Prof, Others Press for 
Dean's Resignation.” Well, the “gay prof” was me and I had written 
a letter to Myles Brand about— I felt the dean should step down— 
Maury  Holland. I mean, the stuff that was said was just 
unbelievable. And so there was a big uproar. All the TV cameras 
and stuff showed up in my office.  
 I had no idea what happens. I'd never been put in the media before. 
They kept playing this interview with me again and again in the 
nightly news. And Cheyney  told me that he kept getting these calls 
from these people over at the Law School to shut her up. Anyway, 
it was a big thing. And as a result of this, I think it was really made 
clear that there were issues on the campus, but they didn't really do 
much about it. And so that's why we wrote this letter later and 
specifically really pushed to get the position in the Dean of 
Students Office and also the standing committee in the faculty. 
Well, it wasn't  just faculty, it was the University Senate at that 
point.  
Long:  Can you describe that committee in greater detail? 
Douglas:  Yeah. Well, I think it began about 1992 or '93. It was easy to get 
that. There was a committee on the status of women, but there had 
never  been one on gay stuff. There were, I think Dianne Dugaw  
and Amanda Powell by that time had come to the university and 
they were on this committee. Faculty have the choice of committees 
that they really should participate in, although many don't. But the  
University Senate by that time was, it had been before, but not 
really— it was a university senate for both faculty, staff and 
students. And so the committee had representatives of all of those 
three areas on it. And what happened was, well, the task force, we 
started this fantastic tradition in the spring in, I guess it was April, 
I'm not sure. I can't remember because it doesn't happen anymore.  
 Which morphed into the Intersex weekly celebration, one-week 
celebration. And it was really, it was, let's see, it was somehow 
during that Gay Pride Week, and I can't remember, gee, I can't 
remember exactly what week that was, but it seems like it's 
sometime in March or April, something like that. The committee 
invited Barney Frank, who was the only out Representative  in the 
House, the Federal House, to come with his partner Herb Moses, to 
the U of O to speak. They came and we filled, what is it? It's 
Geology 100, I always think, but that's not the name of the building 
anymore—that giant lecture hall over there in the middle of 
campus. And we also had a panel on lesbian and gay studies. 
Really neat people came.  
 I actually have recordings of these, so I'm willing to share those 
with you. We could copy them, but that was 1991. Okay. So all of 
this is happening. And then, da-da, we have  1992 and the OCA. I 
mean, all of a sudden all this stuff is going on on campus. When 
they  outed me in The Register-Guard  and the guy that did this, Jeff 
Wright, was the reporter, a number of years later apologized, called 
me up and apologized to me and had not realized what he had  
done and had not realized what that meant. But I told him, no 
problem. It happened and I am out and that's not an issue. But the 
whole issue of— Well, up to this point, and this is November 29, 
1990, they had never used the word “gay” in The Register-Guard. 
They always used “homosexual.” 
 So, all of a sudden, there's all this stuff coming at everybody. I 
mean, it's coming on the campus, it's coming in the community. 
And— 
Raiskin: Because of the Oregon Citizens Alliance?  
Douglas:  No, before. I mean, the Oregon Citizens Alliance emerges out of all 
of this. And of course, the gay rights issues in San Francisco, the 
San Francisco Gay Parade was making big press and there were 
lots of people going to it and such. That's how that, and actually 
that guy, I can't remember his name, the OCA guy, came from 
California and they came here to Oregon. I think they thought they 
had a chance at doing something here. They had Measure 9, and 
that was, let's see, which date was Measure 9?  
Long:  Nineteen ninety-two. 
Douglas:  Nineteen ninety-two. Yeah. It was statewide and we defeated it. 
And it really targeted teachers and people like that in particular, 
the whole big thing about the gays are out there, they're pedophiles 
and they're doing these horrible things to children. They're 
proselytizing their agenda. Measure 9 though, was defeated. It was 
a statewide measure. It was defeated. But some voting precincts  
voted for it. And one of them was the Veneta area. So, there was a 
big push by the OCA all over Oregon in all the rural communities 
to bring this back as a local measure, as a local issue, which they 
did in Veneta.  
 And that's what I was saying like before, at that point in time, I 
mean, I was totally out and I went to the city council in Veneta and 
talked about being a landowner and paying my taxes and being a 
member of the community and supporting the schools and being at 
the university and that I was a lesbian. And then by that time, 
Marie  and I had gotten somewhat involved with each other and we 
went door to door in the Veneta community to try to educate 
people and convince them in the vote. And then when the vote 
came, it basically was against us, but it was ignored. It was totally 
ignored by the city council and everybody else. The OCA did their 
thing, but they also emerged out of a whole social movement. Part 
of what went on with the task force, too, was the recognition of the 
AIDS, God, how do you call it, plague.  
 And up to that point, gay men had not really been very out. I mean,  
there was the Mattachine Society, there were a number of groups, 
but women by and large lesbians, became much more politicized 
through the feminist movement, as myself. The AIDS movement, it 
changed everything. And so when we were working with the task 
force, we were able to go in both as men and women in a united 
front. And when that comes together that way, when all of a 
sudden people start coming out of the closet, and by this time I was  
out of the closet in my department and it was okay as long as you 
didn't rock the boat, but people were rocking the boat. And it was 
happening all over the country and this was just a big movement 
that was going on all over the United States and in many, many, 
many communities.  
 And at that point, we were all really, our  political focus at that 
point was to come out if we could, if it were safe, to come out if we 
could, and to also publicize how normal we were, which is 
always— that's a somewhat dangerous thing. But of course, we 
weren't dwelling on our sexual activities or anything like that. We 
were dwelling on the fact that we had families and that we had 
chosen to have families. We had children and we were normal in 
every other way. We paid our taxes, we voted, we taught in the 
schools, and we didn't do all of those terrible things that they were 
saying. And that was really important.  
 I remember there was a parade, I think in Springfield. And there 
was a couple that had a child in a stroller or something and they 
were photographed in the parade and that kind of thing.  So there 
was this whole movement to make people aware that we were 
actually normal members of our society even though our choice in 
sexual partners was same-gender. That was going on all over. 
And— 
Raiskin: Was there any controversy about putting forth that image as 
opposed to the more  radical—  
Douglas:  Oh, absolutely. Yeah, I think there were a lot of people who 
benefited by having a very closed community, the dyke bars and I 
mean, they're all gone now. I mean, there were all these wonderful 
bars in San Francisco and I mean, they're really, the softball games 
and all of those kinds of things. And we kind of lost that sense of 
community when we became more normalized. I mean, and 
certainly it ends up with gay marriage, which in my opinion is not 
over. None of this is over. It will probably never be over. It will just 
keep going back and forth. But yeah, there were a lot of people who 
are perhaps a little more radical, but the radical people thought that 
it was really radical to have families, to have children and to have 
their own children and create their own families.  
 That was very much going on then. I was basically, when I came to 
Eugene, I was about as radical lesbian separatist as you could get 
and remained that way, but sort of in the closet. And at that time 
there were several kinds of feminism. There was cultural feminism 
and I came from a Marxist political background, so I was ready for 
the revolution or something. But I mean, really, I mean, we did, 
we've done this. I'm never really confident that it's done. But the 
Eugene lesbian community was a really wonderful, absolutely, 
incredibly wonderful place in the 1980s and into the '90s. After the 
task force, I was still involved in the lesbian community to a large 
extent that we had a publication called The Lavender Network. 
 And The Lavender Network  was a publication that we had. I have a 
copy here I was going to leave with you. This is sort of, I don't  
know, a magazine, I guess. I think it came out every two months. 
It's “Oregon's Lesbian and Gay News Magazine.” And this is 
August 1993. I edited a piece in here on psychiatric survivors. And 
looking at how the DSM, the psychiatric diagnostic manual that 
decides if you're sick or not, you're mentally ill. How that had been 
used historically and in people's actual lives as homosexuals and as 
gay and lesbian people. And so I continued to do this kind of work 
all through the '90s. And I don't know, things changed to some 
extent. I mean, as I said today, we have gay marriage, but who 
knows how long that's going to be.  
 Yeah. And I wouldn't say there's a lesbian community anymore in 
Eugene quite like that period of time. That was a very, it was a 
combination of feminist and lesbian really— 
Raiskin: What did it feel like living through that time here?  
Douglas: Well, I came out when I was twenty-two, twenty-three. I mean, the 
only thing we had was Freud who said that you had matured 
immaturely sexually and of course, all these horrid things. I mean, 
my mother once pointed out to me a high school counselor who  
was, obviously now years later, of course, I realized she was a 
lesbian and she dressed in suits with a tie. She had a tie. And she 
always looked very nice. She had a skirt on, but she had short hair. 
And my mother made some sort of noises and hints about, “Well, 
you don't want to do that.” And I don't know if she thought I knew 
what it meant. I had no idea. And that kind of prejudice, that kind 
of discrimination where I could lose my job because of who I am  
and who I love, when you grow up with that both in terms of your 
mental ability to survive in society and your social— people go into 
the closet.  
 And the closet is a horrendous thing. It took me about five years of 
work with a psychological counselor to be able to come out to my 
parents, even though everybody in my family pretended that,  “Oh 
yes, yeah, we know about her.” When you come to a community 
where everybody is so strong and supportive and you've made a 
choice, you've made a commitment as to where you're going to 
work and where you're going to live, it was so exciting and 
comforting, so to speak, but I was still in the closet. Yeah. And until 
I got tenure, I was in the closet and then  I was out of the closet.  
 Yeah. The other thing about the task force which was really good 
for me was I got to know a number of the gay men in the 
community. Two of my really good friends, a couple, Harry 
Wolcott  and Norm DeLue had been together for years. I did a 
Fulbright lectureship in India and Harry  was doing one in 
Thailand. We visited in Thailand as well as here. We were very, 
very close.  He unfortunately passed away a number of years ago, 
but he had gotten involved with a young guy. He and his partner, 
Norm, owned a property out up, Willamette  Street, way back up in 
the country there. And they owned maybe twenty, twenty-five 
acres. It was  wooded and they had built this beautiful home up 
there.   
 Harry had gotten involved with a young guy who was renting a 
cabin on their property and they had a sexual relationship. And so 
this young guy then went to the police and yeah, the whole thing, 
right? Harry got dragged into court and was outed. I mean, that 
was it. And that was probably— I would guess that was in the '70s 
or '80s, about '70s. And he wrote a book about it. I have a copy of 
that book. He wrote a book about this, but he became, he was in the 
Ed School and he was an educational anthropologist. And that was 
really difficult because Norm was a school teacher in the 
Springfield, was a elementary school teacher in the Springfield 
district. That was all over the newspapers and everything. And it 
was really incredible— 
Raiskin: Did he lose his job?  
Douglas:  No. Oh no, he did not. He did not. And yeah, I mean, that kind of 
thing, that was still going on. But there were lots of other gay men 
in the university that hardly anyone knew existed. I think they felt 
more vulnerable than the lesbian women who were supported by 
CSWS and the whole feminist stuff. And there was strong unity 
there and support, but for the gay guys it was really hard for them 
except for Dom Vetri. Dom Vetri  was incredible. He was really out 
there. He was just great. But he was, of course, a lawyer and in the 
Law School. 
Raiskin: What do you think about Eugene as a place to age as a lesbian now 
that you're retired?   
Douglas:  Well, we own our own home and we have a lot of friends here. We 
have many, many, many friends. I don't know. I mean, I don't see 
any difference between just being younger and aging. I don't know. 
It's all one thing, one seamless thing. I still have a desk in an office 
at the university here and I'm appreciated by my department. So I 
have connections to the university and, I don't know, what can I 
say? I have many, many, many friends, lesbian and not lesbian.  
Raiskin: And are your friends talking about what they are envisioning for 
their future?  
Douglas: I think the word that everybody worries about is the physical 
decline and that's both the physical body in the normal sense of it 
as well as mental dementia. And people are kind of worried about, 
what are we going to do if those things start happening to us? 
Where are we going to live with? Mobility. People are talking about 
downsizing, getting into a house where there are only one set of 
little stairs or something. But there was a really interesting thing a 
couple of months ago and I can't remember exactly the date, AARP, 
which is the, what is it? American Association of Retired Persons. 
Marie  is a member of that and I'm by default a member of that.  
 They had a panel here, a workshop panel here in Eugene and we 
got invitations to go to this workshop on aging in the lesbian and 
gay community. And I mean, we were astonished. Here's AARP, 
and it was people from Portland who had organized this. And 
there were a whole bunch of lesbian women in the audience that 
we knew, almost everybody we knew and one gay  man who we  
also knew. But it was really, really interesting because as this 
workshop went on and the panel went on, we began to realize that 
there were a whole bunch of people in the room that we didn't 
know who they were.  
 And it turned out they were the providers. What the concern is, is 
that as you get older and you have to move into some retirement 
community, what's it going to be like? Is there going to be 
discrimination? Are there going to be problems like that? The 
providers that were there in the room were all these people 
representing these retirement communities, all of the ones around 
Eugene and talking about services and such as you age, for 
example, as a veteran being able to get services and things like that. 
That was an amazing thing because one of the people on the panel 
gave a brief history of what it was like for people our age—  
 I'm seventy-four  now. But what was it like for people our age to be 
younger people back in the '60s, the '50s, the '60s, the '70s? And if 
we're going into these retirement places with our peers, are we 
going to encounter the same prejudice and the same 
discrimination? A lot of the younger people in the room where 
these provider peoples, they were people who represented the sales 
part of it or they were the managers, they had no idea what we've 
been through so to speak because gay marriage, oh yeah, it's all 
solved, problems all solved. Right? Yeah. But the problem is that if 
you're an older person and you move into these communities,  
you're with other older people who may not feel exactly the same 
way as younger people do today.  
 And so that was quite— they had no idea about the laws and losing 
your job and the incredible prejudice, losing your family, and they 
had no idea about this. That was good and it raised this issue. And 
of course, the whole issue of transgender came up. And that's the 
sort of on the edge thing right now in this LGBTQIA community.  
We talked about all of this and what could you do? Marie  and I 
have made a few trips around town looking at some of these 
retirement places. So, we went to Cascade Manor. The salespeople 
got us in and they had us for this open house for potential people. I 
mean, I've sworn I'm never moving in, but Marie  is interested in 
this place.  
 Anyway, so we go there and they give us this tour and everything 
and then we're all sitting around in this outside— 
Raiskin: How did it feel going through as a lesbian couple for the tour?  
Douglas:  Well, my parents were in a retirement apartment place very similar 
to this down in the San Francisco Bay area. What I saw was the 
same kind of facility that my parents were in. And it was very— 
Raiskin: But were you self-conscious going through as a lesbian couple?  
Douglas:  Absolutely not. No, no. I mean, we're totally out. I mean, we have 
been so out—  
Raiskin: And they treated you— 
Douglas:  Yes. Well, here's what happened, though. We come to the end and 
we're all having these drinks and things and we're outside in this 
patio area and there's people who are also there who have lived 
there, who have come and bought places and stuff. And so Marie  
says to this guy who's giving the spiel, she says, "How many 
lesbian and gay couples—how many lesbian and gay people do 
you have living here?" And there was this total horror. Oh, and 
all— I can't remember, I think it was a he, all he could say was, "We 
have a lesbian on the staff." That was it. Well, of course, Marie  did 
that intentionally.  
I mean, and then we were looking at one of these other places, 
these friends of ours from the university are in that Jean Tate  place 
down on Olive, I guess it is. And there were a couple of these 
apartments for sale and they were very interested in getting other 
retired U of O people so they’d tell us about this. And everything's 
going fine and he takes us around and we look at these places and 
everything and we get to the very end of it. And this is a straight 
guy with his wife and he's known us for years. He's known me for 
years. And he says, "Well, and I don't think you would have any 
problem being here as one of those people." And Marie  was like, 
she has not experienced this. Marie  came out when she was forty-
five years old. I am her first woman lover and her first partner, first 
lover, first everything. And she has not experienced this. And of  
course, I've told her all about these things and she was just like, she 
could not believe it.  
 And she realized it was this coded message and that of course, 
there was an issue, there would be an issue. So, that's a big thing. 
One of the things that we've talked about in aging all over has been, 
are there any co-housing groups? We understand there might be 
one up in Seattle for lesbians and gays, but every time I look at any 
of these, it's like, who knows? I mean, I  would like to live in a 
multi-generational context. I don't really want to live in the kind of 
over fifty-five place that my parents lived in. I just don't like that at 
all.  
Aging is a lot about, how do you manage all of this and people are 
looking at, well, what happens if you get dementia? And how do 
you deal with all of this? We are so out that we don't even think 
about this, we  just go in, we do our things. This is my partner. We 
are not married. We have no legal partnership or anything, but 
we've been together twenty-four,  twenty-five years and we have all 
kinds of other legal papers which we needed.  
Raiskin: Why have you decided not to get married?  
Long: Yeah.  
Douglas:  Oh, well, I'm opposed to marriage. To me it's a bad institution for 
women and  it's about really owning property and it's the history of 
it. So, yeah, it's to me. And I was very upset when the political 
agenda, the political focus like Basic Rights Oregon and all of the  
groups started to turn towards gay marriage. And it took me a 
while to be convinced that, well, okay, one can use it symbolically. 
It's the biggie. It's the biggie. And yeah, I can agree with that. But 
even if I were straight, I would not be married. I mean, to me, it's 
just I don't understand it and I don't want to participate in it.  
Raiskin: Thinking about this interview in the future, what would you tell a 
young person watching this about what's important or experiences 
that you've had that are important and you want people to know 
what the joys were perhaps of being in this community?  
Douglas:  Well, to thy own self be true. The integrity that comes from 
recognizing who you are and that's in various shapes and colors 
and behaviors, and being able to embrace that and accept that is 
really critical for many, many things in life, including one's 
happiness, one's success, one's creativity. And sometimes it's tough. 
It's really tough, but I'm going to be one of the ones that stands up 
and I'm always going to be there. I'm going to always be one of 
those people. I didn't know I was that kind when I was fifteen  years 
old and following my parents' Republicanism. But boy, I sure 
found out, and I think the world is what you make it. But it's very 
important to have that integration between the self and who you 
are in a social context and to not be afraid.  
 The other thing is I was looking at all of this stuff this morning and 
I thought, this is amazing. This is just amazing. What an exciting 
thing to have lived through this period of time, both for women 
and for lesbian and gay persons. What an incredible thing. And to  
have participated in it and to be able to have participated in it. And 
some of that, of course, we all have certain privileges and I've had 
many privileges. But I really want to use those privileges to widen 
that up. And I'm still very concerned about racism in Oregon. It's a 
very deep concern for me here. It still is in the whole United States, 
in the world. It's just extremely disturbing.  
 There's a lot of work to be done. And gay marriage, it doesn't just 
mean, I mean, there're still sodomy laws on the books in a number 
of States. And Oregon, by the way, still says that marriage is legally 
defined as that between a man and a woman. And we haven't 
eliminated it from the Constitution. That should be eliminated. I 
don't know why we haven't done that, but that's, I guess onward 
and upward.  
Raiskin: Thank you so much for this interview.  
Douglas:  Oh, you're welcome.  
Long: It’s been really great. Thank you so much.  
Douglas:  Oh, good. Well, I have— 
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  