  
 
Long:  This interview is part of Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. The 
recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives.  This 
is an oral history interview with Gretchen Miller on September 13, 
2018 taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries' recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Library Special Collections and University Archives and Professor 
Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, Gender and 
Sexuality studies.  Gretchen, please let us know if you agree to be 
recorded for this project and that you give your permission for the 
university to preserve and make available your recorded and 
transcribed interview.  
Miller:  Yes.  
Long:  Thank you very much. Let's start with the basic question. Can you 
please tell us when and where you were born and something about 
your early years?  
Miller:  October 13, 1950 in Wichita, Kansas. I have two older brothers and 
one younger. My father, who is still alive and is 100 now, he's kind 
of a self-taught aeronautical engineer. He got a job at an aircraft 
factory during the war and worked there from 1940 to 1980 
something. I grew  up in Wichita. There weren't gay people then 
they didn't exist, at least not if you were in Wichita.  In retrospect, it 
is very clear that there was a cousin or something of my mother 
who lived in a little kind of a studio apartment next door that we 
owned. He lived there for a few years and he was very nice to us 
and then moved off and it's very clear that he was gay, but not at 
that time it wasn't clear at all but there just wasn't any such thing. It 
did not enter into the equation.  
 I didn't have boyfriends. I didn't really date and I was a nerd and 
kind of argumentative perhaps, and a little difficult, kind of a brat 
sometimes. It was hard to say if I didn't date people, it wouldn't 
necessarily be because of sexual orientation. It could well be 
because I  was kind of a jerk, kind of a brat, argumentative probably 
smarter than most of the people and I certainly was smarter than 
most of them, interested in different things. It's kind of hard to pick 
those things apart and when there is no gay or lesbian culture and 
lesbian isn't even a word that exists, it's pretty easy not to think 
that's what it was.   
 I grew up in Wichita and then I did went off to college and did 
some other stuff and finished college. Let's see, I started at Cornell 
then I went back to KU,  Kansas University, went off to live, work 
on a commune for the summer with my boyfriend, who I had 
finally met through the Peace Center, an anti-war work in 
Lawrence. He and I lived together for about ten years and came 
hitchhiking out to the West Coast.  We spent a couple weeks with 
my brother in San Francisco, headed north, stopped in Eugene 
because his junior high school buddy was living in Eugene, rented 
a room in the house next door and basically never left that was that. 
Eugene has been very congenial  and that would have been about 
1974, my best guess. That's when how long I've been in Eugene.  
Long:  What brought you West at all?  
Miller:  We just wanted to go to the West Coast, go see my brother in San 
Francisco and then start north and see how far we'd get. We were 
just traveling.  
Raiskin:  What did you study in college?  
Miller:  Classics.  
Raiskin:  Interesting.  
Miller:  Ancient Greek and Roman history, mostly Greek.  
Raiskin:  What drew you to that?   
Miller:  Well, I just sort of fell into it. I was in a six-year Ph.D. program at 
Cornell and at the scholarship house where I live, there were all 
these classicists and history is my thing. I've always liked it. I just 
sort of fell into it and then when I finished some time at Cornell, I 
had nearly enough credits for the major to graduate when I 
transferred. I need to take about two more classes so why wouldn't 
you?  
Raiskin:  What was Eugene like when you came here in 1974?  
Miller:  Well, right about— must have been earlier than that. It was earlier 
than that. It must have '71 or '72 was what it would have to be. I 
was in the throes of urban removal. I know a friend of mine, Diane 
DePaolis, who came to law school said that she came in and 
brought all of her money to pay for her year of school, put it in the 
bank and  then went off to work for the summer and came back in 
September and the bank was a hole in the ground.  There was this 
moment of thinking, "What have they done with my money?" Well, 
they did still have the money and all but that was kind of what it 
was. You turn around for a few weeks and something would be a 
hole in the ground. They were urban removing at an alarming rate 
but what it was like, it was a very congenial, kind of easy going 
place in the '70s. The Hoedads were really busy with all of their 
groups, of course. Starflower got organized about then, maybe a 
little later.  
Raiskin:  These are collective businesses and organization?   
Miller:  Yeah. They are. They are. Yes. There was a lot of push towards 
alternative economy, I guess we might call it, cooperatives, 
collectives, people getting together to create their own jobs.  In the 
early years, the first few years I was here, I volunteered at the 
Emerald People's Food Co-op and needed a job and it was there 
that somebody suggested that were hiring people to drive school 
buses. I drove a school bus for a year. It was a very educational job, 
I must say.  When you drive a school bus, you get in this bus that 
seats let's say fifty-two middle school kids and there they are kind 
of wrestling around because their Brownian motion continues. You 
turn your back on them, you start the engine and you drive in 
traffic and they're all behind you. That really can be quite exciting 
sometimes and all you have to control them, you have a really good 
set of mirror up there, much better than anybody else's mirror. You 
can actually see the whole bus but if you're me, you can't remember 
fifty kids' names every day. It's much less effective to shout, "You 
in the brown coat, sit down," but you're in traffic, what can you do?  
I developed a good mommy voice, which served me well many 
times later. It was kind of a fun year and I know that the kids can 
also be very cooperative. When it snowed, their favorite thing to 
do, some of them, was hop out and lower the windows, run out of 
the bus ahead of the other kids and then throw snowballs back into 
the bus. I finally got tired of this and I gathered them all up in one 
day, before I started driving I said, "You may not know this but 
when I get back to the bus. Well, I have to clean the bus and  I have 
to clean up everything you've left and they don't actually pay me  
for this. I just have to do it." That's probably not legal but that's 
what happened. "I don't really appreciate it when you make a big 
mess on the bus." They actually were much neater for several 
weeks after that. There's some hope.  
 Okay, that was the first year and then what else did I do? I don't 
know. Then, I went to law school. That was a real whim. I sort of 
do things on— I've realized as I get older that I've never had a plan 
whatsoever. I admire people who have plans. I didn't know what I 
was going to do. I was pretty sure I didn't want to drive a school 
bus forever.  Somebody told me that the last LSAT exam was that 
coming Saturday and there  was just trying to sign up for it. It was 
like the last day or next to last day to sign up for it. I signed up for 
it and took it. Boom! There I went to law school. That kept me busy 
for a few years.  
Long:  What happened with your boyfriend?  
Miller:  He was building. He was working construction. He had a little 
construction company. An awful  lot of hippies did that, building 
houses and I worked with him and kind of helped keep that 
business going. It was never much of a business. He was pretty 
good at it but you have to be kind of seriously ruthless to really 
make it in the construction.  When we broke up, he started teaching 
math at LCC and became head of the Math Department. We both 
left sort of the hippie fields in some ways but anyway, we were 
together through law school and then—  
Raiskin:  What kind of law were you drawn to?  
Miller:  That's unclear. I told Jill Heiman as we were getting— she was in 
her third year. She was one year ahead of me that sure, I'd go into 
private practice with her. Once again, not having a plan or a clue, 
only there wasn't anybody in town doing any law that seemed very 
interesting to me.  Jill worked with co-ops into sort of alternative 
business law collectives and co-ops. She represented for a while. I 
think she represented the Hoedads and then they got Mike 
Goldstein  instead but I know, I'm sure she represented Starflower  
and I know she represented just an awful lot, Mama's Home  Fried 
Truck  Stop café, which was over by campus where— I think it's 
Pegasus Pizza now. It was for a long time. Bunch and bunch of the 
co-op she represented. We did a lot of small business law and a lot 
of co-op and I did a lot not just family things, write wills, handled 
adoptions, do divorces, small business of all sorts.  
Long:  What was the law firm called?  
Miller:  Heiman and Miller.  
Long:  Okay. 
Miller:  It was the first only women law firm. Jill, I believe, was the first 
woman to appear in court in Lincoln County when she had a case 
out there. Still there were lots of other women lawyers in Eugene 
but I was right kind of at the cusp, the years ahead of me, there 
were like four or five or six women and the class that graduated the 
spring before I started in the fall was like that, just a handful of  
women. In our class it was like, I'd have to— somebody could look 
it up, maybe 25 percent  women or something. It was a huge, huge 
change right then.  
Raiskin:  Did you meet people in law school that were interesting to you?  
Miller:  Well, there were a lot of interesting people in law school. I'm not 
really in touch with much of anybody anymore.  
Long:  What was your graduating year?  
Miller:  Seventy six. We, Jill and I, practiced law and I don't know what we 
did. We kept busy and then I think I was down hanging out with 
some people that we knew from some of the business work and 
somebody said I should run for the City Council, probably Jack 
Delay who was on the City Council at that time with his terrific 
campaign slogan, "Time for Delay." He's just a wonderful guy and 
somehow they convinced me.  As I've said, my story doesn't seem 
to have any planning.  It seems to sort of be who I have run into, 
who talks me into something. I did. I ran for the City Council and it 
was fortunate that I had my own law practice because being on the 
City Council doesn't really fit totally well with doing anything else 
much even though at that time it was a completely unpaid job.  All 
you got was what? A mileage, seven  cents a mile or something like 
that for driving back and forth to meetings, which is not actually 
really helpful. It wasn't even then. That was an interesting 
campaign. I didn't know anything. I still don't know much but I 
really didn't know anything. Doug McKay was my opponent and  
he was the nephew, I believe, of a former governor of Oregon of the 
same name. So he  had all this name familiarity— not with me 
because I hadn't been here long enough to know that when I started 
but not to be unkind, I don't want to be— He was a decent guy but 
just not energetic and charismatic, shall we say.  I got the 
newspaper's endorsement, which surprised the heck out of me 
because he had all this name familiarity of the entire Republican 
Party of the State and everything on his side but go talk to Jack 
Wilson. Somehow, I got the endorsement of the newspaper and I 
think that made a big difference and I campaigned a lot and things 
were simpler then. Everything was simpler then. You can do it 
door-to-door. You didn't need $50,000.  It was an interesting year in 
respect to  this project because the first— and now  I've lost track of 
the numbers, but the first campaign, the City Council had passed a 
human rights ordinance that would protect gay and lesbian people, 
made that a protected class and the repeal, the referendum to 
repeal was on the ballot. That was being voted on at the same time.  
 Now, I was still with my boyfriend but it was kind  of not much of a 
secret which side my sympathies would lie on or which side my 
opponent's sympathies would lie on but everybody would ask at 
all these meetings, and being young and naïve and things were 
different then, I thought a boring lawyerly response  about 
discrimination is basically choice and you have to decide between 
two people or two things. We discriminate all the time. I decide 
what to have for lunch. Will I have a hamburger or a salad? It's a 
matter of just making a discriminating choice.  The question is, on  
what basis do you make that decision and if that basis is an 
inappropriate category that has nothing to do with the decision that 
you're making, then that is what we would sort of call a 
discriminatory choice, meaning not a good one.  We're using the 
word in two different ways and whether somebody's sexual 
orientation or what they do in the privacy of home really has 
nothing to do with what kind of an employee they're going to be. 
This is for most purposes. Therefore, it would be not a reasonable 
basis for a decision.  Most people were sort of stunned into silence 
at that point. They didn't have a follow up questions, was sort of, 
"What did she just say?" but the best, the very best was Eric Haas  
who was running for the City Council. He was on the council. He 
was an incumbent. He was a lawyer from Bethel. He died a few 
years ago now, moved to Oakridge after he retired but he  was a 
really wonderful and crusty guy. His answer at these various 
campaign forums where you're all lined up, I would come  to him 
and he would say, "I am not a bigot," and sit back down. Of course, 
he got reelected and of course the campaign lost and the measure 
did get repealed but— 
Long:  This is measured 51?  
Miller:  That would be 51, yes. Thank you, 51.  
Long:  For clarification Gretchen, you're running for City Council and 
what year was that when you were running?  
Miller:  It must have been '79.   
Long:  '79, okay.  
Miller:  You have to look and see if that's what 51 was but that would be 
about right because it was just after law school.  
Long:  Okay and were you are— 
Miller:  '80, maybe.  
Long:  Were you already campaigning? I mean— 
Miller  I was not— 
Long:  —The human rights commission— Were you on the human rights 
commission?  
Miller:  No. No, no, no. That came later.  
Long:  Okay.  
Miller:  No. I was – 
Raiskin:  I would clarify about the 51.  
Long:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  City Council passed an anti-discrimination?  
Miller:  Yes, they did.  
Raiskin:  Again, to protect gays, lesbians and housing in employment?  
Miller:  Right.   
Raiskin:  There was a Referendum 51 that was opposed to that— 
Miller:  Right.  
Raiskin:  —And that passed.  
Miller:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Miller:  The referendum passed, meaning the civil rights measure was 
repealed by vote of the people and that was the same ballot when I 
got elected to the City Council.  
Long:  You were elected to the council?  
Miller:  I was.  
Long:  Okay.  
Miller:  Yes and – 
Long:  That was 1979?  
Miller:  I guess or '80 or even ‘81, right about that. I don't know. It must 
have been about '79 though. That doesn't seem possible.  
Raiskin:  We can look that up.  
Long:  Who was mayor at that time?  
Miller:  Gus Keller. Good old, Gus. Gus Keller was the manager of John 
Warren Hardware. A great old hardware store downtown, which  
was owned by his father-in-law, his wife's father and Gus was kind 
of just a good old boy, just a friendly, kind of knows everybody and 
it was really terrible when his wife's father died and his store was 
sold, which happened while I was on the council because then he 
didn't have a job. That would have been my third year on council. 
He had to go up to Seattle for stockbroker trading. I was acting 
mayor for six months at that point.  
Long:  What was that like?  
Miller:  Just somewhat more demanding than being on council but not that 
different really.  
Long:  By then, we had a city manager.  
Miller:  Yeah. We had the city manager. We've had one for, I don't even 
know when that started. We've had a manager council government 
for a very long time in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  I want to go back to the passing of the referendum.  
Miller:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  It passed fairly handily.  
Miller:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Which meant that the majority of people who voted in Eugene 
voted against the rights of gay and lesbian to people to work and 
live as they wanted.   
Miller:  That's right.  
Raiskin:  How did that feel to have the  city vote that way?  
Miller:  I think we all knew that that was what was going to happen. It 
wasn't a surprise and obviously it would feel terrible except that 
those were the days and that's what it was. That was what life was 
like. We were at the Women in Medicine Conference some years 
ago that was— It came to that a little later but getting out of 
sequence, Sarah Hendrickson, my partner was a doctor.  I had 
lesbian lawyer friends, a handful. There were no lesbian doctor 
friends and there was an ad in the back of some medical journal 
that said something about, "Women Oriented Women Conference," 
some code word like that. I said, "Look at this. You should go to 
this." It was in Asilomar, California. She did and met a bunch of 
lesbian doctors. We just went back this last summer, awesome, 
wonderful group of people.  
 We met women there including a lawyer from Chicago with her 
doctor partner and she was an old National Lawyers Guild sort of 
reddish, red-tinged organizer representor her lawyer and she told 
us stories about she and her partner would go to parties in Chicago 
and they would carry their pants in paper grocery sacks until they 
got into the party and that everybody would change into their 
pants and then when you left the party, you'd change back into 
your dresses because it really wasn't safe to be on the street as a 
couple in pants. That was a little bit before my time but quite a 
vivid story she could  tell about that.   
Long:  Wow, yeah.  
Raiskin:  You're saying that you were not surprised.  
Miller:  It wasn't a surprise that 51— I didn't think anybody thought it was 
going to succeed.  
Raiskin:  We've heard from other people's interview that that was a moment 
where particularly gay men left Eugene and— 
Miller:  Yes, that's true.  
Raiskin:  —and went to San Francisco because of the  disappointment of this 
referendum. 
Miller:  That's true. There was a number of gay men left or sometime in the 
next couple of years started making plans to leave, yes and there 
has not been— The gay men's culture is in Portland, not in Eugene 
and it hasn't been in Eugene really. There were Terry Bean and Don 
Powell and some wonderful guys back then and they all went to 
Portland,  basically. Other men that we've known head to Portland 
pretty soon. Yeah.  
Long:  Can you take a moment to tell us about Dom Vetri. I believe he was 
the UO law professor who wrote the text of the ordinance?  
Miller:  Indeed. What do you want to know?  
Raiskin:  What was he  like?  
Miller:  That's true. He was–  
Long:  Yeah. He had to have a certain amount of courage to be out and to 
write the text.  
Miller:  You do, you do. Well, it's a little easier to have that courage I think 
on the university campus than some places because you're 
probably not going to lose your job and he's retired now but he was 
an absolutely brilliant professor who worked very hard, taught  
torts, which is civil wrongs basically, anything that's not a crime.  
He was just brilliant and he never in the law school, never coasted. 
He redid every class and every lecture every year and he kept up 
with developments in torts, not just case law, which would be hard 
enough but with sort of the theoretical developments of what was 
going on and how you think about it and he incorporated that into 
his classes on a constantly changing basis. He's brilliant and 
incredibly hardworking. Then, he would take on things like writing 
the ordinance in his spare time.  Absolutely wonderful guy and I 
think, I don't know that he had trouble with the law school not that 
I know of. He's so smart and worked so hard.  
Long:  There was another professor who, I think he was an instructor at 
the law school and he came out to his class and he was 
reprimanded by the law school dean.  
Miller:  That wouldn't surprise me. I never came out to any of my law 
school classes. I did come out to my class at PPPM or I'm way out 
of chronology here but what the heck. I taught at PPPM, which is 
Planning, Public Policy and Management after I taught at the law 
school. Yeah, mostly after.   
 The last  ballot measure it must have been Measured 13. Again, I 
have to figure it out but it must've been 13. It was on the ballot then 
and I told my class at the first day of class that I've never done this 
before exactly like this but I thought it was appropriate to say given 
the way that Ballot Measure 13 was written, it was extremely broad 
about what the effect it would have on state employees.  I said, "It is 
so broad that I'm honestly not sure what it means exactly but it is 
possible that if that passed that I would not be able to continue to 
teach and that I might have to leave before at the end of the 
semester."  I said, "I don't think that will happen. I don't think that it 
will pass and if it did, I don't really think that that's  what it means 
because it would be so disruptive to so many people, but given the 
way it's written, I'd say I have to say that that is a possibility. If 
anybody would like to drop the class now so as to avoid potential 
disruption, please do." I also told them I was a lesbian somewhere 
in that speech. I forgot that part.  Nobody dropped the class but that 
was the only time that I ever came out to the students and I don't 
see why you would basically. It seemed to me that had at least a 
tangential relationship to the class what I was teaching but I can't, 
in most circumstances, it's none of their business.  
 When I was teaching at the law school among other things, I taught 
LAP, which is called Legislative and Administrative Processes, that 
was also the year that  Sarah— I got pregnant by artificial 
insemination done by my partner Sarah with a known donor, a gay 
man in town, Scott Meissner. I got more and more pregnant as the 
year went on and my students begin to refer to me as LAP, Lesbian  
Artificially Pregnant because it wasn't a secret. It's just that there 
was no need to talk about it. It’s not particularly relevant to what 
we're doing at law school.  
Raiskin:  That's funny. Let's go back to the chronology of after  51. 
Miller:  Okay. Yes.  
Raiskin:  What was happening in your life then?  
Miller:  Fifty-one, what's happening? Okay. I was running for the City 
Council and I was still with my boyfriend and I don't know what 
was happening. I was running for the City Council. I had passed 
the bar exam.  The summer that  I took the bar exam was the 
summer of the Watergate hearings. That I know because I set my 
backyard with a radio listening to them and studying for the bar 
exam, which is pretty horrible and when I was running for the City 
Council, there were many days that I told myself, "I passed the bar 
exam. This is nothing. I can do this." It was the only way to keep 
going some days.  
 I got on the City Council, discovered not too much to my surprise 
that you can't really do all that much. Just like almost any other 
executive position like that. You can propose things. You can sort of 
nudge things, but you can't actually change the world from that 
position. It could have some impact here and there and that City 
Council is a great deal about getting streets paved. We built a 
sewage treatment plant. That's a huge job and very expensive and 
very difficult. We built the Hult Center. That's a huge job and very  
expensive and very difficult. You spend a lot of time on things that 
aren't necessarily very glamorous and that's what we did. A lot of 
it— there's not so much human rights were involved in it, and that 
other people get to do that and you get to do the fun stuff like 
berating the Public Works Manager for not getting the bottles fixed. 
There was the City Council and then that's a four-year term and in 
the middle of that, Sarah and I got together.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet her?  
Miller:  We had met previously. She and her then husband were talking 
about building a house in the country, out Fox Hollow, out south of 
town and David, my boyfriend and I, had gone out there to meet 
with them at the site and talk to them about it and all.  We had met, 
then we spent time together various times after that. They never 
did build the house. They  moved into town and Sarah left— had 
been at the health center and there was a note in the women's 
bathroom at the law school, which was where all the women in the 
law school did all of their major communication because it was the 
only place where there weren't men.  The law school, the old law 
school, had brick walls and everything was just take to the bricks. 
So somebody put up a note that there's this cool new doctor at the 
health center, Dr. Hendrickson and everybody should go see her. I 
told her that later and she said she did seem like she got an  awful 
lot of  law students there for a while. But she was at the health 
center. I don't think I ever— and then she opened a private practice 
because I remember her husband Les called me to tell me that she  
was opening a private practice and me and everybody else I knew 
should go to her practice and make it work.  You'd have to ask 
somebody else, I don't know but I'm pretty sure he made hundreds 
of those calls. I knew her but not as a buddy or anything and then 
that's her story, really. She woke up one morning from a dream and 
said, "Oh!” We were going to a party at Gertrude's Silver Eighth 
Note Café,  which was a lesbian, feminist, collective café over  on— 
now  it's some kind of an environmental place office now.  We were 
at that party and we got to talking and then we went off and 
wandered off for a walk and kept talking and her husband and my 
boyfriend eventually had to go home without us because we sort of 
never came back. I think we stayed out wandering around talking 
until about 3:00 in the morning or something. That was that. What 
can I say? I never did  have plans. Things just happened.  
Raiskin:  Were you surprised?  
Miller:  Yeah. Yeah, and intrigued and delighted and I remember thinking, 
I don't know if this is a good idea or not. I don't know if this is 
going to last. I don't know how serious this is, but  I do know that if 
I don't do it, I will always wonder, so what the  hell.  
Raiskin: You didn't have any inklings beforehand that you're attracted to 
women? This was– 
Miller:  Well, I had a lot of lesbian friends if that counts, but not really.  
Raiskin: Then that you were partners very soon?   
Miller:  Partners very soon. Yeah. I still had to live in my ward on my side 
of town, so that was awkward. She had just been elected to the 
EWEB Board. She had to live in her two wards, her area on her side 
of town. It was a little awkward for a couple of years and that's a 
big reason that I didn't run for the City Council again, was that I 
was not going to continue being in my ward on the wrong side of 
town. If that did not happen, I very likely would have served 
another term, but what the hell. They did fine without me, I think.  
 What we did, we got together very quickly after that and I think we 
date our relationship starting to 1980, which was when that was, 
February or March of 1980. It's always interesting if you ask 
lesbians what their anniversary is. What are we anniversary-ing? 
Our first date? First time we slept together? First time I brought the 
U-Haul over? What is it? Somewhere around March or February or 
March 1980,  is what I figured.  
Raiskin:  How did the separation with the husband or partner go?  
Miller:  Sarah's husband, they had not been getting along for a long time, so 
it was no surprise. It took a while to get him out of the house. She 
moved into the basement. He stayed in the bedroom, took her a few 
months to get him to find another place and move, but that was it. 
That was an inevitability. It was difficult for me, but we all lived 
through it and I would have done it much more gracefully now, 
but I was young and stupid and didn't know anything. I didn't do 
it very gracefully, such as life.  There we are, 1980. I finished the 
City Council. I must have finished it in '82 maybe because that's— I  
don't know. Somebody can figure that out about that. Then, we 
really could thoroughly move in together and be together.  
 She had a son who was four, almost five when we got together. 
Then, when we really were able to live together, then we had the 
son together and that was when I was teaching at the law school. 
Derrick Bell hired me at the law school knowing that I was lesbian 
and living with a woman. That was not an issue for him. I did tell 
him when I got pregnant during that year, but that didn't seem to 
bother him either.  
 Again, I don't know if I did it as gracefully as I  could have, but I've 
learned a few things over the years that I didn't use to know, but it 
pretty much went okay. That was not an issue, basically. I'm not an 
academic, really. I have two brothers who are professors. It seemed 
like maybe I should have been, but it turns out that academic law is 
really boring. Actually, law is really boring and it turns out that I'm 
not sort of really properly suited to it. Perhaps if I'd gotten the 
Ph.D. in history, I would have really loved it and enjoyed it, but not 
knowing that at the time, I would have to say a law degree was a 
really wonderful thing and I supported myself. I've supported my 
family. I've had really interesting jobs. I've never had trouble 
finding work. That's all been a good thing. It's not my passion 
though. It's interesting. It used to be more interesting. I've gotten 
kind of tired of it over the time.   
 Then, let's see. City Council, I don't even remember what I did. I'm 
sure I did things on the City Council. I can't remember what they 
were. We had the ballot measures. Then we had the first No on 9. 
Raiskin: Can we go back to 8? 
Miller:  We skipped 8, didn't we? We skipped Measure 8. 
Raiskin: Start anywhere.  
Miller:  Okay, Ballot Measure 8. Harriet Merrick is really— I'm sure you've 
talked to Harriet. Harriet— it was her thing but the state, oh, God 
how did we get— 
Raiskin:  Start with Governor Goldschmidt.  
Miller:  Yeah, Governor Goldschmidt's— I'm trying to think how it got 
onto the  ballot. Was it a referendum onto the ballot from 
Goldschmidt's executive order? Is that where we got to?  
Raiskin: I believe Governor Goldschmidt's executive order, which was to 
protect gays and lesbians— 
Miller:  It was, yes.  
Raiskin: The anti-discrimination bill, executive order, was pushed back by 
the Ballot Measure 8. 
Miller:  Yes. 
Long:  That was the  Oregon Citizens Alliance.   
Raiskin:  We saw the Oregon Citizens Alliance.  
Miller:  Yes, bless their beady little heads. Yes. Yes. Okay. It was 
Goldschmidt's executive order, which would protect, provide 
essentially civil rights protections for gay, lesbian people who 
worked for the state because as an executive in charge of the state 
executive, that's what he could do. That was his power. Ballot 
Measure Eight was  to push back against that, to repeal that in effect 
by vote of the people. In fact, it did. There was a group in Corvallis 
that was formed at that point called After 8, which I always 
thought was such a great name because then they could have 
parties for their meetings. But it was repealed and I was not 
particularly active in that but Harriet was the one who used to be 
an employee of the U of O of course, was the one who was the lead 
plaintiff, one of the lead plaintiffs in the lawsuit to overturn that 
saying, "Mercy me. I don't certainly simply don't know what to do 
to supervise my employees. That's why I am so confused," and it 
did get overturned eventually pretty much on that basis.  
Long:  Do you recall what the text was of Ballot Measure 8? Did it specify 
for— 
Miller:  I don't remember. I do not remember.  
Long:  —how people were to behave.  
Miller:  I don't remember. I'm sorry. Ask Harriet. She knows. I would if I 
wanted to know. I could look it up, but I would have just ask 
Harriet, but that got us to and I was not particularly active in that  
because I was on the City Council and I had a law practice and I 
actually was kind of busy at that point. That does get us to Ballot 
Measure Nine. The Oregon Citizens Alliance feeling doubtless 
empowered at that point that they had won, brought Ballot 
Measure Number 9 and that's the one that has the remarkable text. 
Still kind of stuns me even now where it talks about homosexuality, 
bestiality, does it say necrophilia? It might, pedophilia.  
Raiskin:  —masochism.  
Miller: It's got it all in there and it's like, these are all loathsome things 
which shall not be allowed or permitted or even talked about. It 
was absolutely stunning in its over-breadth and I have always been 
grateful to them for doing that because they actually might've 
passed it if they had had something somewhat more reasonable, 
like some of their later ballot measures, but they overreached to 
such an extent that pretty much any reasonable person could see, 
this is just outrageous. This is just absurd. This is crazy talk.  
 The campaign was really interesting because the campaign really 
gained an enormous amount of momentum toward the end. We 
had been working on it. Sarah and I and a lot of other people here 
in town pretty much had been  working a lot on the  campaign. In 
fact, our youngest son, Douglass learned—That's the first time I 
saw him, I was sure, read and you can see on their face when they 
get it. We were at some campaign event and he said, "Mom, mom 
that says, No on Nine." "Yes, it does. Good boy."   
 We spent a lot of time at campaign events and having fundraisers 
and parties and going door to door and so on. It picked up 
momentum toward the end. I finally figured, I was pretty confident 
by the end that it was that 9 was not going to pass because 
busloads of people came down from Portland to campaign against 
it in the last couple of weekends, because they were so sure that 
their neighborhood was safe, that they could come down here and 
you think, well, you've got a tide on your side at this point. The  
feeling, the whole feeling was just this. People who didn't 
necessarily support gay rights, but this was just so outrageous and 
so ridiculous, but we spent a lot of time that was our major effort 
for that spring and summer.  
Raiskin:  Nine lost in Portland and Eugene, but in most of the state it passed.  
Miller:  Yes, it did.  
Raiskin:  That feeling in Eugene may have been different than in much of the 
state.  
Miller:  Oh, it was. Yes. There are more people in Portland and Eugene and 
Benton County, basically or the areas that would reliably vote no 
on something like that. There just happened to be enough more 
people there that– 
Raiskin:  Do you remember what the margin was on the state?  
Miller:  I don't. I'm sure I used to know, positive I used to know. Closer 
than I  wanted it to be, but it did. The no vote  did prevail.   
Long:  If you can recall some of the main leaders of that No on 9  
campaign, if could tell us a little bit about who worked on that 
campaign?  
Miller:  I don't remember who was doing it. I'm sorry. I really don't. I don't 
know. We were all just working as hard as we could and doing 
everything we could and up until a couple of years ago, I still had 
folders full of the lists of the names for the different parties that the 
different fundraisers, and the people who had connections at print 
shops and could get things printed for us less expensively. The gay 
network stretched to every kind of service imaginable, but I just 
don't remember anymore.  
Raiskin:  It took an enormous amount of energy in this community, one 
ballot after another measure after another.  
Miller:  Indeed it did.  
Raiskin:  Can you remember what it felt like to have this string of 
referendums and measures one after another?  
Miller:  It really felt like that's what we did. It just felt like here they come 
again. They're coming after us. The first Ballot Measure 9 I know, 
let's see. You don't happen to know when that was do you? What 
year would've been about– 
Raiskin:  Ninety two?  
Miller:  Ninety two, is that right?   
Raiskin:  Yeah. It was '92, '93.  
Miller:  Yeah, that would be right, because our son would have been four, I 
guess. Okay. Yeah, you would be four. He'd be just learning to 
read. That was '92, it just felt that year it was so uncertain and the 
attacks were so vicious that Sarah and I were among those. We 
went out and got passports for all of us and all of our children and 
we didn't really think we'd need them, but we kept them along 
with a certain amount of cash kind of tucked away and these days, 
you might call it your gold box or something, but we just kept it 
tucked away where we knew where it was, because if somebody 
did try to take our children away, we would leave. We didn't really 
ever expect that to happen, but it just seemed wise to have a certain 
amount of precaution.  
 I did have a friend who absolutely literally sewed money into the 
hem of her coat because her family were Holocaust survivors and 
she was petrified. She was an extremely capable, extremely 
together woman who on this topic just became absolutely terrified 
and felt much safer having money, fairly large amounts of money 
sewed into the hem of her coat just in case she had to grab her coat 
and go. It was a scary time because they were so hateful. They were 
so very, very hateful.  
Long:  Did you ever meet Lon Mabon— any occasion to meet him?  
Miller:  I saw him in the flesh. Yeah.  
Long:  What was he like, if you recall?   
Miller:  I don't remember. I couldn't tell you.  
Raiskin:  We often wonder where the motivation for Lon Mabon, Scott 
Lively where?  
Miller:  You do, you absolutely do. It's some combination. I've always 
figured some combination. It's based on fear and whether it's fear 
of one's own sexuality, which I think is probably part of it or fear 
that somehow the world is changing and that people you don't 
understand may actually get some power or have some place in the 
world. I think there's just an awful lot of it. It's just based on fear 
and uncertainty and a fear of change. Like I said, there weren't any 
gay and lesbian people when I grew up in Kansas. If there are any, 
then it means the world is changing and that's clearly a scary thing.  
Raiskin:  It also makes money.  
Miller:  It makes money and they get power. I've suspected with Scott 
Lively especially that money and power had a lot to do with it. 
Yeah. I saw him more often because he was more local and it made 
him important, lots of getting quoted, lots of being on TV.  
Long:  We've interviewed some people who have commented that, in a 
backwards way, they're grateful to the OCA because it allowed 
people to coalesce and to move forward and to gain particular basic 
rights.  
Miller:  Yeah, we would not be where we are without that. I don't have 
any— I believe that too, that we went from isolated people who  
might know a few other people, but just a few steps removed from 
bringing our pants in a paper bag to the party. We'll just keep real 
low and under the radar and we won't cause trouble and then you 
don't cause trouble and just living that way to really being out 
there. Was it the first No on Nine where somebody did and they 
must have been, yes. It was the first one. They did the— I don't 
know what they called the neighbors’ pictures. They call it, “We 
Are Neighbors Now” and I think it had a different name then, 
which I've lost track of that. Our family was in that, so we had 
Sarah and me. 
Raiskin:  Love makes a family.  
Miller:  Love makes a family. That's it. They called it that and it was a 
photo show and they had very nice volunteer photographer. Like I 
said, you reached out to the whole community with everybody's 
skills. This volunteer photographer came out. We all sat on the 
steps of our big house there over by Monroe Park near downtown, 
Sarah and me, and her son from her marriage, James and our son 
that was born when I was the law professor, Alexi, and our 
adopted son, Doug from Texas.  We have one from “Column A” 
and one from “Column B” and one from Texas, is what we've 
always said. Doug is in this picture. He was four then in his little 
Superman shirt and he's going like that. He's so cute.  Bill and 
Russell, a couple of gay men who rented the garage apartment 
from us and who were papas to Lex and Doug and so we're all out 
there and maybe some other people, I can't remember, but we're all  
out there in this picture. This was one of the many pictures of 
people all over the state that they put this exhibit up, the thinking 
being, you get normal people, ordinary people and the idea is to 
show that we are just ordinary people. They had a great picture of 
two great gay cowboys from Eastern Oregon. Just ordinary people, 
just could be your neighbors, just anybody.  
Long:  Was it a traveling exhibit?  
Miller:  It was a traveling exhibit. They took it everywhere they could find 
a venue for it. That kind of thing, it was, I think very clever. I think 
very imaginative, really well done and you can only imagine the 
amount of time and effort it takes for somebody to do that and to 
put the pictures together and to find the venues and to drive it all 
over the state and to hang it and to take it down.  
Long:  This was during the No on 9 campaign.  
Miller:  This was during the No on 9 campaign  and we are all exhausted 
and doing everything we possibly can. Sarah and I consciously 
talked about it, made a decision. We are well set. Sarah is a doctor. 
I'm a lawyer. We're not going to get fired from our jobs. If we did 
somehow— If we lose a certain amount of custom, certain amount 
of clients or patients, that's okay. That's not going to be as such a 
big deal. We'll cope. We don't really have that much to lose 
compared to a lot of people. A lot of people we know were not 
professionals and they worked.  We knew people who, lesbians 
who worked at Weyerhaeuser or who worked at just any job you  
can think of. Some of them would have lost their jobs if they had 
come out and others of them, if they hadn't lost their job, would 
have been so harassed. They would  have been unable to continue. 
They couldn't come out and we knew a number of people who just 
had too much to risk or people who were divorced and if their ex-
husband got a hold of this, they'd lose their kids. All those things.  
 We said, we really don't have much to lose. We're going to be fine 
no matter what. From a position of privilege, we felt like you have 
a responsibility to do what you can. We will be a public face. We 
will put on our dress clothes and try to look respectable and go out 
there. I don't remember which No on 9 it was because since they 
were both 9, I get them mixed up but I did come to a talk at the 
university, it was sort of a debate with the— Oh, it might've been 
[Maureen Gabbar 00:48:34]. She was another piece of work, can't 
remember  but one of the other people from the other side and she 
had brought— The condition of her coming was that she got a 
certain amount of seats in the audience that she got to fill with her 
friends.  She did and one of them came up to me afterwards and 
said, "I don't see why you do this, darling. If you didn't tell me, 
nobody would know." I said, "That's kind of the point." I don't 
think she ever got it. I don't think she understood that was the 
point but it was and we tried to make that be the point in the first 
No on 9  campaign and in the next No on 9  campaign, which 
coincidentally the next one got the same number, which made it 
easy to reuse some of the same slogans and things.   
 Most of the really cool pins and buttons and slogans came from the 
second campaign because we are so much better at it by then. The 
first time we were making everything up as we went. The second 
time, we kind of knew what we were doing.  
Raiskin:  Remember some of these slogans?  
Miller:  You get the buttons, like that had the pink triangle and they say, 
"Straight, but not narrow," or "Better gay than grumpy," was one of 
them. I don't know these clever guys would come up with these 
slogans like that and every day there was a new— Somebody, oh, 
was it Scott who was on the Human Rights Commission later? 
What was his name? Went to George Fox University, moved to 
Florida. He had a button machine and he was extremely inventive 
and every day he'd come up with, like every time I saw him, he'd 
have a handful of new, clever slogans for me.  
 After I got off the Human Rights Commission, I mean, after I got 
off, sorry, back up after I got off the City Council and we adopted 
our youngest son, Doug from Texas, who is African American. We 
became a lesbian, interracial family with three boys and we were 
not as welcome, I think, in some lesbian circles as before because 
we had three boys. If you're going to be significantly involved with 
us, you're going to have a lot of boy around. It's just inevitable.  
 We also had challenging boys, three very smart, active,  busy boys 
and we had some friends who drifted off and who quit seeing this 
explicitly. They would tell us basically because, well, one of them  
said, "Your children aren't nice to each other and I can't deal with 
it." They fought. They did. There's no question they fought. I'm not 
any worse than my brothers and I fought but they weren't always 
nice to each other and that's true but also just they were noisy and 
rambunctious and we didn't break their spirits when they were 
young enough, I think is the problem. They had way too much 
spirit.  
 We made other friends and they tended to be people with similar 
children who could keep up with us. We didn't spend as much time 
in the lesbian culture as a lot of people did, because once you've got 
a bunch of little kids, you spend time with people with little kids. It 
sort of happens that way. Especially if you have a certain type of 
little kids, then you spend time with people who can stand that and 
who maybe have kids like that and who can just, it just rolls off of 
them too.  
Long:  Did you engage with the teachers in schools or school 
administrators about the children's education?  
Miller:  We sent Doug to preschool at TBI, Temple Beth Israel, where they 
had really supportive and helpful and warm teachers who were 
very good at dealing with very busy children. They also had a great 
curriculum about freeing the slaves and getting out of Egypt, which 
they drew explicit connections with slavery and Harriet Tubman 
and all that sort of thing.   
 He had a couple of years there of learning that whole curriculum in 
preschool and they did a wonderful job with that. Then, we sent 
them to the Spanish bilingual program, which is North of the river 
and in an area that is farther away from the university, shall we 
say, in some point of more  upper class neighborhood and we had 
more trouble there. Not trouble in elementary school, we did okay. 
Doug, I think, never really got a fair shake in elementary school 
because whenever there was something really active going on that 
might be like trouble  on the playground or something, he was 
probably nearby because he was really active but since he was the 
only one who was black, he's the one they'd remember.  
 There were three or four kids and I know he was there. He was 
always tagged even though it wasn't necessarily him, but they 
knew he was there. He had a hard time, although we had some 
really, really good friends, including a kid his age who was a lot 
like him, who now is a very sweet gay man in Portland and became 
Doug's best friend and spent a whole lot of time at our house and 
went on vacations with us and really seem to like being with us.  
 We have been mentors of young gay men off and on for a long 
time. There's another guy, much later we were working in the 
garden and he came by and chatted and told us some of his story 
and he grew up in Utah and his family didn't want anything to do 
with him and could he help us in the garden and he hung out for a 
while and then eventually he came up to Sarah and he said real 
confidentially, "I'm gay." Sarah said, "Yeah, that's okay." People like  
that, we would just find— They would find us. People have found 
us. 
 I joined the Human Rights Commission really because of Doug 
more than anything else. We couldn't get much on tray into the 
African-American community. We have some black friends, mostly 
through the university, but the NAACP, for example, was run by 
people who were very gay, hostile, and didn't really think that 
white parents should adopt a black child and didn't think that 
lesbians should have anything to do with it.  
 It was not a— We were not really welcome there. That was very 
clear. In fact, it was some of that family— Some years later when I 
was on the Human Rights Commission we went over to Sheldon 
High School, which again is north of the river, same  demographic, I 
was just talking about the better side of town and talk to the 
assistant principal there because we had heard, we had talked to 
some students that were feeling very uncomfortable there because 
of their sexual orientation and they would like  to have some kind 
of support from the administration.  
 What could we explore with this and could we put on some kind of 
a program or could, various options, what could we do? She said, 
"That would not be necessary because they didn't have any gay 
students  at Sheldon." We said, "How would you know that?" She 
said, "Well, if we did, they would come tell me."   
 We didn't actually just take that for an answer, but we might as 
well have because we just gotten nowhere, absolutely nowhere. 
That was one of the same  people who was doing the NAACP. It 
just, we weren't very welcome there and we never got anywhere 
with that school until they got some new administration either or 
the students just had to lump it.  
 Other than that— Oh, there was one time, which I had nothing to 
do, I don't think. Well, I did have actually. Alexi, our middle son, 
went to Monroe Middle School to continue the Spanish immersion 
program and middle school is a tough time for everybody, I think.  
 In art class, toward the end of the year, he finally told me that these 
students had been kind of bullying him and harassing him and 
they were calling him gay, which he is not, but which he was this 
cute, young guy with two lesbians moms and he could have been. 
It's hard to know, although clearly not but anyway, it was toward 
the end of the year, maybe like three weeks or so left in the school 
year. I went to talk to the teacher and she said, "Oh, you know, 
that's too bad." She hadn't noticed anything.  
 Oh, okay. She would move Alexi over to a table on the  other side of 
the room by himself. I said, "I didn't think that really was probably 
the right answer to this. I thought there were probably, ta-da-da-
da-da-da. She said, "Well, we can't do anything talking about 
discrimination or bullying or harassment because that's in next 
year's curriculum."   
 Again, I mean, that's as far as I got. It was almost the end of the 
school year. I would have kept that one going, but that was just 
another brick wall. We're not going to do that. Alexi did, to be fair, 
possibly bring some of this on himself by being a troublemaker in a 
calm sort of way.  
 He had a friend who I suspect was gay, although I've lost track of 
him, so I don't know for sure. The friend's mother came and picked 
them up after school a lot. There was one tree out in front of the 
school and when it was raining, which it does here a lot, you could 
stand under that tree and be pretty dry and everywhere else to wait 
for parents is not dry. Alexi and Brian would stand under that tree 
and all the jocks would be under it because that's where you 
wanted to be.  
 Alexi and Brian would nudge in there and then they put their arms 
around each other and they'd nudge over, the jocks would move 
away and they nudge over and move away and pretty soon they 
have the tree and everybody else who'd be out in the rain.  
 I can see how that's a little bit asking for trouble and they, Alexi 
and Brian thought they were very clever and they were very proud 
of themselves. I'm kind of proud of them too but you can see how 
in middle school that could get you targeted that kind of thing.  
 Also he did a, in our district, everybody in, I think it's eighth grade, 
does a program about a big project about my family. It's kind of 
like a schools— Maybe it's seventh grade, I don't know, school  
science fair sort of thing with the big threefold panels. There's all 
these things and then you do a big display in the gym when 
everybody's got them done.  
 You go through table after table of like, "My family comes from 
Lithuania and this is the Lithuanian flag and this was the 
Lithuanian national food and this is the Lithuanian folk dance and 
here's half that came from my grandfather," that kind of thing.  
 Here's the Alexi and what does he do? He does, "My gay and 
lesbian family," and he did a big display  about, "These are my 
moms and these, I call these, these are my Papas, my dads and 
here's my— that helped me, my uncles sort of, and this is my dad 
and here's other important gay people from history.  
 We were not actually sure how that was going to go over when he 
unveiled that but Susan [Detroy 01:00:06] came for on behalf of the 
Lavender Network, which was a newspaper, a giveaway gay 
newspaper at the time and took pictures and ran an article about 
him.  
 Then, we took his display and him to women in medicine 
conference, which was in Hawaii that year. It's the only time I've 
ever been to Hawaii. It was an awesome trip and they had him put 
up his display and do a little talk about it. He got quite a bit of 
mileage out of his seventh or eighth grade presentation but you can 
sort of see why some of the kids in his school might have picked on 
him a little bit.   
Long:  What was the reaction to his presentation that night?  
Miller:  Some of his friends said they were jealous because we, not being 
sure what would happen, had encouraged some of our friends to 
come by. Then, we had Susan over there with a bright light taking 
pictures and everything and they said, "Come see my exhibit. 
Mine's just as good as his." That was the main reaction I saw that 
night but Lexi has always been kind of gutsy that way. "Let's take it 
to him and see what they do." We weren't hiding feeling that we 
didn't need to. We didn't.  
 It was the first no on nine campaign. I think we didn't know at all if 
we were going to win. It was the second one where the big wave 
came and it was clear that we were going to win. I had that wrong 
a little bit earlier. The first one nobody knew it was a nail-biter. The 
second one, it became clear that even though they had not 
overreached so far and they had written a more sensible measure, 
public opinion was strongly against them.  
Raiskin:  Would have it curtailed teaching about homosexuality or 
mentioning it?  
Miller:  Thirteen would have. The next one was measure 13 and that's the 
one that would have curtailed teaching or mentioning 
homosexuality in schools and that's the one when I, as a professor, I 
said, "I'm not actually sure what effect this would have on me 
because I can't tell."   
 Well, I taught law at the law school, then I taught law in PPPM, 
Planning, Public Policy and Managements of law to 
undergraduates who were going to become, as I would say, the 
future bureaucrats of the world. If the subject of the law is 
homosexuality, then you have to talk about it. You can't not and 
teach it, it seems to me. Nobody was  at all sure what that ballot 
measure would have meant if it had passed but that was the third 
one, thirteen.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Miller:  Don't ask me questions like that.  
Long:  '90— 
Miller:  Let's see, '92, so the next one would have been '96, no, they were all 
in the '90s, '92, '94 and '96 or '98 something like that. They were all 
in the '90s I'm pretty sure.  
Long:  Yeah, okay.  
Miller:  They just came one after another and it just felt like that was all we 
did. I had the four years on the City Council,  which it's worse now 
but it was pretty demanding even then sort of like doing this, I did 
not realize before I went into it that I had to spare 20 or 30 hours in 
my week every week but look I do. Who knew? Just trying to keep 
up with it is a lot of work and trying to keep up with three young 
boys at home, is a lot of work.   
 Sarah and I had a big blackboard, a green board actually, chalk 
board in the hall and we kept it always ruled off as a calendar and 
we always marked on it. You have meetings, council meetings, 
other things that we're doing, when Sarah's on call, when Sarah's 
got to be at the hospital, who's going out early, who's going to be 
late and there's a tremendous amount of if I pick up the kids at 5:00 
and then I get them home, I can get something in front of them to 
eat but you'll have to be here by 6:30 because I've got a meeting at 
7:00.  
 We did a tremendous amount of organizing like that for years, just 
ships that pass in the night, moving as fast as we can. A lot of it was 
political work because these ballot measures kept coming. Truly it 
did forge a community really. There's no question about it, that you 
work with people like that for that long and that hard, you become 
very close to them and you are a community that the OCA created 
a community where there wasn't one before.  
Raiskin:  We've heard from people that they see a connection between the 
forging of that community and the movement of marriage equality. 
I'm wondering what your experience with the marriage equality 
movement was or what you thought about it.  
Miller:  Well, I had always said for a long— When I was kid, I'd had no 
interest in getting married and again, I didn't think that was a 
matter of sexual orientation. I just thought that was a matter of 
good common sense. Why would anybody even want to get  
married? It kind of went along with not dating and all of that, just 
not interested.  
 The marriage equality movement was never my big movement 
because why would I even want to join a country club that doesn't 
want me to join it? A terrible idea but it's a good idea sort of in 
theory, although it was never my big movement.  
 Sarah and I did go to the Women and Medicine Meeting in 
Washington DC, which I think was in '94 and they had an 
enormous marriage ceremony there with all the people marching 
nationally like hundreds of thousands of people.  
 Hundreds of thousands of people got "married" at that and we had 
our marriage. I just gave it to you our marriage certificate from that 
big event, which was us and 300,000 of our dearest friends from the 
capital, out on the big capitol mall in Washington DC. That was 
kind of fun.  
 I do. I think it's very accurate to say that this movement brought 
people together, slammed those closet doors very effectively and 
once you're out and you've done all this  work to say, "We're your 
neighbors. We're people. We're not very different from you," then, 
it's much easier to say, "We should get married," sort of like you say 
and, "We'll see people on TV," and you'll run into people at the 
grocery store and pretty soon you think, "Yeah, they're not so 
different. Why not? Let them get married." I think one thing does—  
I hate to endorse a slippery slope concept because I hate those 
arguments but one thing does sometimes lead to another I think.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever get  married legally?  
Miller:  We did. Sarah and I got married. We called ourselves— Sarah 
called us the poster girls for same-sex marriage in Southern 
Oregon. The story, which I like to tell, although it isn't exactly true, 
is that [Dave Bernanke 01:07:22] called me one day and said, 
"Gretchen, do you want to get married?" I said, "Why Dave, I 
thought you were already married?" That's not exactly how it went.  
Raiskin:  Dave Bernanke was the head of ACLU.  
Miller:  He's the head of the ACLU and that wasn't exactly how it went but 
that's too good a story not to be true, I think. Sarah had always 
done abortions at her office, her medical office on West 11th, which 
is a major street and the protestors had always been out there 
picketing her office and there were some dreadful people. Julius 
was a particularly unpleasant man.  
 We had organized volunteers to help walk people into the office. 
You could be coming in for your well-baby check with your 
newborn baby and this guy Julius would get up and wave these 
plastic doll parts with red paint all over them in your baby's face or 
your three-year-old's face, "Did you know that your doctor kills 
babies?" I mean, it was just, he was a really unpleasant man.   
 We would get people to kind of help shepherd people in but our 
best event was that we did pledge a picket where the office 
happens to have a front office where they do the books and 
appointments, not seeing patients but the other stuff, had a 
window in the second floor overlooking the street. The front office 
people every whatever, every hour would count how many pickets 
were out there and make a note of it. We got people to pledge 
money to the ACLU based on how many picket hours there were. 
The more pickets were out there, the more money the ACLU got 
and then we made a thermometer and put it in the windows so we 
could mark them red for all that the increasing money that the 
ACLU was getting. We figured that— It made us happy anyway.  
 We had been working with Dave on projects like that and other 
projects off and on for a long time. He said, "Well," what he actually 
said was, "The Multnomah County Commission is about to issue 
marriage licenses and we are trying to get on top of this and would 
like to know if you and Sarah would like to get married. You give 
me $60. We'll send somebody to Portland to pick up the license and 
have it back here." This was like Sunday or Monday. I said, "Sure. 
That sounds— Let me talk to Sarah probably but yeah. It seems like 
a good idea." We said yeah.  
 Then, we had some other interesting things to do like decide. He 
arranged— The manager of the Hilton got us a room another 
reaching out to your friends kind of thing, got us a nice room at the 
top of the Hilton and some other people gave us some nice flowers  
to decorate the room and basically ACLU volunteers put all that 
side of it together.  
 Sarah and I had been going to and still are going to the Unitarian 
Universalist Church in Eugene. We had started doing that. I have to 
back up if I have enough time for this one. I really do. We had 
started doing that when right after the EWEB recall election, which 
I left out, which I'm not sure where it fits in here. It would have 
been about '92, another reason we were so exhausted all the time 
because Sarah was on the EWEB Board and was elected to four 
terms and served out three and a half of them.  
Raiskin:  That's the electric and water board?  
Miller:  Electric and water, the local municipal utility. They had a female 
general manager who was and is dynamite. She is smart and 
capable and a really good manager. She also was gorgeous and tall 
and blond and there were, it's sad to say but true, three, well two 
short stupid men on the board along with Sarah and two other 
people. They just couldn't stand it. They just could not bear it.  
 They suddenly decided to fire her  and they got three of them 
together with one of those kind of backroom talking to each other 
kind of deals. They changed the agenda at like 4:45 Friday night for 
the next Monday's meeting to say something like performance 
evaluation manager or some vague threatening but unclear things 
like that and so on. This is all documented that you go on to it and  
they come to this meeting and then they just, the three of them just 
fired her, bam-bam-bam. It was a very dramatic meeting.  
 At one point, she didn't know that it was coming and she was 
totally stunned. She didn't know what to say. She's completely 
taken aback. Finally, Sarah got up and said, "Come on Jean. It's 
clear they don't want us here," and they walked out.  
 Then, some people started organizing a recall campaign the next 
day because bless their pointy little heads, they had done this about 
a month before. If they had waited a month, you wouldn't have 
been able to get stuff filed in time to get them on the ballot. They 
would have had a year or two to let it fade but they were too stupid 
to look at the ballot dates and they just did it.  
 We just had time. We ran an incredibly intense campaign with 
Sarah staying above the fray and with me working as hard as I 
possibly could to get the petitions together, collect the signatures, 
get people organized, do this whole thing and people were 
outraged. People were just outraged.  
 Sarah did an interview somewhere. We just have the tape of it, on 
the radio in which she said among other things that there, "I'm 
sorry John," or whoever the interviewer's name is, "I'm sorry to 
have to say this but they are just short men and they have that 
syndrome." She also said, "It is sexism, pure and simple," and a 
couple of other things like that that were played on the radio over 
and over and over and over.   
 People were just outraged including the neighbors of one of the 
commissioners who all made a point of coming over to sign the 
petition because he was extremely unpopular in his own 
neighborhood. I always thought that he was kind  of an ordinary, 
boring, Chamber of Commerce kind of guy but he's the one who 
ended up, was found out that he had been embezzling from kids' 
sports and shot himself in his car at the airport leaving a note for 
his wife something like, "I'm sorry. You have to clean this up." 
Thanks dude.  
 I mean, he was a piece of work. There's no question about it but 
that all happened years later. This was the recall campaign. We 
worked really hard on that recall campaign and it's a much smaller 
thing than a statewide campaign but it's super intense especially if 
you've got about 10 people working hard on it.  
 Then, we went to our friend Patti Pomerantz, who was together 
with Jan Elliot, two other women here in town, invited us to go to 
church camp that summer. Jan Elliot had been a really good 
Unitarian Universalist for a long, long time and she had been 
married to Peter Wotton, who had kind of a little bit of a name 
around town. He had a show called Elderberry Wine on the public 
radio station and he did his little stories about his life, all that kind 
of thing.  
 We've got— It had been Jan and Peter and now all of a sudden it's 
Jan and Patti and Patti was not really sure how this was going go 
over.   
Long:  Is this Jane Elliot?  
Miller:  No. Totally different person. This was Janis and they moved to 
Portland and Janis died of Lewy body disorder eventually, 
different people but they took us to camp and Patti said, "I'd really 
like it if you'd come because I just don't know how this is going to 
go. I'm a little uncomfortable. I'd like to have a friend there. Here's 
how much it costs. There's half-day childcare that's included. Three 
meals a day will be provided and cleaned up after. There'll be a 
speaker but you don't have to go to any of that if you want to just 
sit and worship the coffee urn that's perfectly okay." I said, "I think 
I can handle that."  
 We did and we just relaxed when we got there. It was the first time 
in years that we had been able to be everything we were in the 
same place. We could be political. We could be lesbian. We could 
be moms. We could be people who love to go for hikes. We could 
be people who loved to be served meals and cleaned up after. Doug 
was too.  
 It would have been 1990 and the girls, the sweet kind of middle 
school-aged girls would come by. He was so cute. He is still really 
adorable and handsome, drop-dead handsome but he was such a 
cute little guy. He was so busy. We'd get him in a highchair, put 
him some food, go organize ourselves and by the time I'd sat down, 
he'd be done and ready to go, which  meant that for two years, it'd 
have been get up and go living because— Forget your own meal. 
These little girls would come up, "Could I take Doug to the  
playground?" "Yeah, you could." That would be just dandy. I can 
sit and eat some dinner. It was wonderful. It was most welcoming. 
We have been Unitarian Universalists ever since because that was 
such an incredibly sweet experience.  
 Getting back to the wedding, we had been not particularly 
important in the church but we had been more or less regular some 
sort of, kind of and then the minister of the church was on 
sabbatical at that time at the time for the Multnomah County 
wedding marriage certificates.  
 Ministers on sabbatical basically don't like to come back early 
because basically once you get back in town, you're done. 
Everything starts again. It was only maybe three or four weeks 
until the end of her six-month sabbatical but still, I know she 
wanted those last three or four weeks.  
 I'm calling around trying to find somebody who can do the 
ceremony and one guy I talked to says, "Would you mind if 
Carolyn, the minister, did it?" I said, "I would love it but I didn't 
think it was possible." He said, "Well, she really is back in town but 
she's not telling anybody because once everybody knows, then it's 
all over but I know she'd like to do this."  
 She came out of her sabbatical to do the wedding. It was such a 
relief because when we went to talk to her, it was like, "Oh, here's a 
professional. There's somebody who knows what a wedding is." 
She said, "A wedding is like this, you start with this and you do  
these things and it goes like this." I said, "Oh." She said, "Have you 
written vows?" We said, "No." "Here's a book that's got a couple 
samples. Pick one." We spent about an hour and we just put this 
whole thing together, which was a great relief because we had no 
idea what we were doing.  
 Somebody else came by and picked me up at work on my lunch 
hour and took me over to a clothing store and bought me a skirt to 
wear and boom! There we go, Saturday morning. We're getting 
married.  
Long:  Now, this was for the Multnomah County?  
Miller:  This was in the Multnomah County.  
Long:  You could actually get married in Lane County?  
Miller:  Yeah, well, theoretically, not really but sort of. With an Oregon 
wedding license, it's good across the state. You don't have to use it 
in the county where it's issued.  
Long:  Oh, I see.  
Miller:  If those licenses had been valid, they would have been valid 
anywhere in Oregon.  
Long:  I see.  
Miller:  We did get married. Here it was a big to-do. We were the poster 
children for lesbian marriage in Southern Oregon, as Sarah said 
along with her friends Tim and Kent, who were the gay guys. We  
had a double ceremony. What was incredibly sweet to me and still 
is, is that you realize this, you've got it, this was all planned for in 
about six days. It's not like you're going to send out, save-the-date 
postcards. It was in the newspaper that we were going to do it but 
they did not say when or where because we really were not trying 
to make this a big protest hoorah event.  
 In order to get to the wedding, you had to know somebody who 
knew where it was. That was the only way it would happen. I 
knew that a few people would show up and I really didn't care 
how many people showed up. As Sarah said, "We knew how to do 
press conferences."  
 It was about Thursday when we realized it was a wedding that we 
panicked. If it only had been a press conference, we'd be good. I 
didn't really care how many people came but what happened was 
the church telephone grapevine got going and there were about 90 
people there from the Unitarian Church, which is since it's not that 
big a church, that's a very substantial number and it packed the 
room and it was so touching.  
 Everybody said that they wanted to be there. It may be one of the 
few weddings ever when everybody in the room wanted to be 
there except possibly the 8-year-old son of my next-door neighbor 
who probably didn't really want to be there but I think everybody 
else in the room was there because they wanted to be because this 
would be the easiest wedding in the world to say, "I didn't hear  
about it in time. I couldn't make it." It was just a delightful 
experience.  
Long:  Was it at the Unitarian Church [crosstalk 01:20:51]?  
Miller:  No, it was at— 
Long:  Oh. 
Miller:  That's where the church was then but no, this was in the room up at 
the top of the Hilton.  
Long:  Oh, I see. Okay.  
Miller:  The manager and the ACLU guys put together this room.  
Long:  Was there any thought of a honeymoon?  
Miller:  I need to go back. We have to go back to work on Monday. What 
do you mean honeymoon? We have work to do. I didn't even take 
off Friday to get ready. I should have in retrospect but I didn't.  
Raiskin:  How did it feel when those marriage certificates were annulled?  
Miller:  Well, I figured they would be. That was another thing that the 
ACLU had tried to convince the Multnomah County 
Commissioners that if they would wait a little bit longer, they 
would pass the ballot deadline and they would not have to run a 
referendum election and some other stuff but no, they didn't and I 
didn't actually think they would ever stick.   
 That means that the marriage was void ab initio, meaning it never 
happened at all, even though I can't seem to convince anybody to 
say it that way. Everybody always says, "We got married and then 
we were unmarried." I know I'm being pedantic but it's not true. It's 
not exactly correct. That was that marriage.  
 Then, we really got married after [Odegaard 01:22:08], the US 
Supreme Court case at Saro's family cabin in Lake Tahoe, up south 
of Lake Tahoe, up in the mountains, up at Desolation Wilderness. 
Beautiful family cabin that her dad built in the '60s, simple, no 
running water, simple place but wonderful. We had my oldest 
brother who's a minister and his wife fly in from Kansas and he did 
the ceremony, the real ceremony.  
Long:  That was 2015?  
Miller:  Must have been, but at that point we'd been together so long and 
married and unmarried so many times, it's sort of hard to keep 
track.  
Raiskin:  Do you want to talk about some changes with Saro  and your 
family?  
Miller:  Well yeah, then Saro decided that what Saro really was, was 
transgendered and Saro was a guy. Sarah became Saro and that's 
not quite two years ago now that he started that transition or 
actually started in April. I guess it's a little over two years ago. 
Yeah and Sarah is now Saro and is very happy. He says he didn't 
really know what gender dysphoria was until it wasn't there  
anymore. He is really happy as a guy. He is still the same person, 
different but the same person.  
 We went to a thing called Gender Odyssey in Seattle last year 2017, 
which is a trans convention. Interesting, interesting place, enjoyed 
it enormously and there were a lot of parents there of young, pre-
pubertal children and they said pretty consistently about their 
children, "There was some grieving or sadness or adjustment 
because I lost a son but I gained a daughter," or vice versa and, "It's 
still my child." Well, to a remarkable extent that's sort of how I feel 
about Saro. Yeah there's quite a bit and there's some adjusting to do 
and some grieving to do because I have lost a wife but I still have, 
it's still the same person. It still very much is the same person.  
 All these years, I have never really bought into the theory of this 
lesbian identity that I am completely a lesbian. I have always really 
been more of the theory that sexual attraction is like a lot of other 
things. It's a sort of a spectrum and you can be in a lot of different 
places on this scale and you can be at different places at different 
times in your life. I was together with my boyfriend when we first 
got together. I was very together.  
 I can't say that that was something that didn't happen or that didn't 
mean anything. It was real. I've always felt there's a spectrum and 
the possibility for change. I still feel that way. What I miss is the 
gaydar that when you walk down the street with your same-sex 
partner and you see somebody else and there's kind of a look, I can  
still give them that look and what I get back is, "What do you think 
you're doing?" That's a little disconcerting sometimes.  
Raiskin:  Much little invisible.  
Miller:  Yeah. I do not feel like a heterosexual woman married to a man. I 
just don't and my identity has been lesbian for so long. I don't 
know, I don't add it up, 40 years more or less, almost 40 and for 
Saro, Saro's identity was as a lesbian for 20 years before we got 
together, 60 years almost. That can't be true but anyway, whatever 
it adds up to. You may lose that identity in a certain sense but I still 
claim that I am still a lesbian. I just happened to be married to a 
trans man now.  
 A trans man is a man but a trans man is a certain kind of a man, I 
think. A lot of trans men would get really angry I'm sure to hear 
that. That's a whole set of political arguments that I simply do not 
need to get into. I have had enough fights in my life. I don't need to 
pick that fight but that is pretty much how I feel about it. He's a 
queer man. I'm married to a queer man. It's not quite the same. I 
still feel like a lesbian.  
Raiskin:  Do you feel perhaps like a queer lesbian?  
Miller:  Yeah, that would do. Yes, yes but you know I'm not sure I ever felt 
like a full-on proper lesbian. I don't think full-on proper lesbians 
worked at Star Flour and hauled bags of organic flour around and 
went and lived at Oregon Women's Land at the OWL Trust out in 
the woods and planted trees. I obviously was never a full-on proper  
lesbian. I was always something else because full-on proper 
lesbians didn't put on nylons and heels and go to court for God's 
sake but I was going to go to court. I didn't have any choice. They 
used to have dress codes. Those were the days.  
Long:  Oh really?  
Miller:  Oh yeah.  
Long:  To go to court?  
Miller:  Oh yeah. Those were the days. That's another whole set of stories 
going to court  but yes, they have, even if you had to dress properly, 
judge Alan was careful about what he said to women being no fool 
but man, he would blast some men. A man came in to ask him to 
sign an order, not even in full-on court wearing a bolo tie instead of 
a regular necktie, he blasts him and send him out to change.  
Raiskin:  Wow.  
Long:  Wow.  
Miller:  I never heard or even heard of him blasting women like he did 
some men but I always kind of knew it was there. You don't want 
to push it too far and find out just how far it was going to go. Yeah.  
Long:  Before we go on to a different topic, I think it's worthwhile. I still 
have a question about the EWEB recall, if you could just clarify. 
There was a very attractive woman in a power of position on the 
EWEB board.   
Miller: Correct.  
Long:  Was she the president of the board?  
Miller:  She was the general manager of the utility.  
Long:  Okay.  
Miller:  She was the hired employee just like the city manager, same 
position.  
Long:  Then, the electors of the board— 
Miller:  The elected board fired her.  
Long:  —Were upset that she had that position?  
Miller:  I think so, yes.  
Long:  They fired her.  
Miller:  Yes. 
Long:  Then, the recall was— 
Miller:  The recall was the get those two out of office.  
Long:  —To get those men out of the board.  
Miller:  Yes. 
Long:  I see. Okay, thank you.   
Miller:  That's exactly what it was. Thank you. Sorry, I didn't make that 
clear.  
Long:  Well, I think it was just me. I wasn't quite sure exactly.  
Miller:  I just lived it so much that I was thoroughly into it. One of the three 
who voted that way had not been in office for six months yet. He 
could not be recalled but the other two could and they were. Well, 
one of them, as I recall, resigned and the other one was recalled. I 
think that's how it went but we certainly submitted plenty of 
signatures to get them both on the ballot. They both saw what was 
coming.  
Raiskin:  Are you in Saro now retired?  
Miller:  We are both now retired, yes. I worked at the law school as a 
professor for six years, I guess. I worked at PPPM teaching law to 
undergraduates, which is lots more fun. What law students, what 
they say about lawyers are they used to say about lawyers, maybe 
they've gotten better, although I doubt it, but they used to say that 
a lawyer to establish his presence, will walk into the courtroom and 
piss in all four corners. That's kind of law students kind of some of 
them come in with that attitude.  
 As a woman, in front of them as the professor, you have to spend 
an exhausting amount of time showing them that they don't know 
as much  as they think they do over and over and over. If you keep 
at it long enough, it gets easier and you get older and so on but 
they continued to be, every year, very young and very sure of  
themselves and very assertive and it is just exhausting and it's not 
as much fun as it ought to be, really isn't. It is, I said, I'm not an 
academic. I get bored doing legal research.  
 Then, I went and taught at PPPM, teaching law to undergraduates 
who were much nicer people as a rule and it was a lot of fun. Then 
Sarah decided to quit her private practice of medicine. She actually 
got to hit the peak moment when hospitals were buying practices 
and they were able to sell their practice and then she had, I think, 
three years to work for them and at the end of that, was done.  
 She came home one day and said, "I'm quitting. You better get a job 
with health insurance." I said, "Okay, I better get—" Then, I got a 
job for the state first doing workers' comp hearings, which was just 
part-time and had no benefits but I was able to segue that into a job 
doing other kinds of administrative hearings, which was a full-time 
job and did have benefits.  
 Then, I was an administrative law judge and did hearings. Just a 
satisfactory thing to do in support of the family and Sarah then 
became a part-time public health officer working for the county, 
which wasn't a very satisfactory job, although Sarah has always 
made twice as much as I have. Doctors make more than lawyers.  
 Sarah working halftime and I working full-time, made about the 
same amount  of money and continued raising the children and 
doing all that sort of thing and until eventually we both threw up 
our hands in despair and quit.   
Raiskin:  What are you doing now in retirement?  
Miller:  Oh, well, golly, I'm having a wonderful time. Our middle son, the 
boy I was talking about in middle school, he used to be kind of 
provocative and his girlfriend and their 20-month-old daughter 
have just moved in across the alley. We built a little house on a lot 
we bought 15 years ago, one-storey, no stairs, half the size if that 
and downsized and moved into it and our son moved down from 
Portland with his family and they moved in. We've got a 
granddaughter across the alley. We have two more grandchildren 
in Portland.  
 The youngest one, Doug, is in Arizona. We  go down there to see 
him every year and what do we do? We're really lazy basically 
compared to, I don't know how we used to do what we used to do. 
I do not know but we are really lazy these days and loving it.  
Raiskin:  You had quite a life and quite a family life and a professional life. 
We've been asking people at the end of these interviews to imagine 
a young person watching this interview, either soon or maybe over 
the years but do you have any advice for a young person from this 
peak that you're at now? 
Miller:  Don't look back. They might be gaining on you. I don't know. No, 
it's a great life if you don't weaken.  
Raiskin:  Well, really thank you for this interview.  
Long:  Yeah, thank you so much.   
Miller:  Thank you.  
Raiskin:  It's so wonderful.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  