Long:  This oral history interview is a part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon, Special Collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Marie Vitulli  on July 10, 2018, 
taking place in  the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Associate Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of 
Women's, Gender  and Sexuality Studies. Marie, please let us know 
if you agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview?  
Vitulli:  I, Marie Vitulli, so give my permission.   
Long:  Great, thank you so much. Marie, we thought we could ask just 
some basic preliminary questions. Please tell us where you were 
born, where you grew up, and something about your early 
background.  
Vitulli:  I was born in Mineola, New York and grew up in Elmont, New 
York, which is part of Long Island. I was very much interested in  
sports.  I was a tomboy growing up. I was interested in playing with 
the boys, we played lots of sports, things related to that. I was also 
from a pretty young age interested in school, science. I taught all 
the other kids who couldn't keep up. I went to college in upstate 
New York, University of Rochester, which I chose partly because of 
Eastman School of Music, which allowed me to continue studying 
the viola. I was able to take viola lessons at no extra cost. Then I 
went to graduate school directly from college at University of 
Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and I was a math major in college, 
and I pursued a Ph.D. in mathematics at Penn.  
Long:  Okay.  
Vitulli:  So, kind of straight arrow, boring.  
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit about your family? How many siblings 
you had?  
Vitulli:  Yeah, my family situation— I am one of four. I'm the oldest of four 
children. My father just went to high school and my mother 
struggled, but finished college. Was kind of unusual for our family. 
I'm very much Italian American. My parents, each one of them had  
one parent born in Italy. My father was a businessman his whole 
life. First he had a public garage with his father where they housed 
cars, and serviced cars and repaired cars. And, then later on when 
his father finally retired, he had a very large gas station with a big 
repair  business where we all worked. Everybody had to help.  
Long:  What kind of work did you?  
Vitulli:  I worked in the office. I did all the bookkeeping, and when they 
went on— I started doing bookkeeping when I was about ten, 
twelve  years old. As soon as my handwriting didn't look terribly 
juvenile, I started doing bookkeeping for the garage for the 
monthly bills. And, then when I was older, the gas station was a 
very big operation, and I helped my mother in the office. And, then 
when they went on vacation, I took over with my brother. But, I 
took over before I was able to sign checks. It was a little scary 
delivering thousands of dollars to the bank every day, and making 
sure the guys that worked for us didn't rob us blind. It was 
interesting.  
Raiskin:  Okay. What brought you to Oregon?  
Vitulli:  I finished my degree in 1976. The job market was very tight. I 
applied all over the country. The best offers in my opinion were 
from Oregon and Oregon State. Almost identical offers, I thought 
Oregon— I grew up not in the city, but close to the city. I was in the 
city a lot. I had a music scholarship, my best friend's father got us 
theater tickets for free all the time. Oregon was a stretch for me, and  
Corvallis was too much of a stretch. I couldn't take it. So, I chose 
University of Oregon and stayed.  
Raiskin:  How did you find Eugene at the time? What was it like?  
Vitulli:  It felt like a little bit being put out to pasture. When I first came, the 
Hult Center wasn't built. Music was always a big part of my life, 
and there  wasn't much, there wasn't what I was used to, much 
music. There weren’t many cultural events. There wasn't much 
diversity in shopping. It was very different from what I was used 
to. But, the people were very friendly. I lived in an apartment for 
very long,  and they all were very friendly helping me.  
Long:  Okay. When you said center, you mean the Hult Center?  
Vitulli:  Yes, the Hult Center for the Performing Arts, was a tremendous 
asset when it was finally built. But, I forget when that happened, I 
was here for quite a while before that happened.  
Long:  And you arrived in?  
Vitulli:  1976.  
Long:  1976.  
Vitulli:  Straight out of graduate school.  
Long:  Okay.  
Vitulli:  I was very naïve about some things. I didn't know how to bargain 
for salary, I didn't know a lot of things in the beginning. I just kept  
my nose down, did my research and worked very hard to get 
tenure.  
Long:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  Did you know anything about the lesbian community in Eugene 
when you came?  
Long:  No, because I— that wasn't on my horizon. I didn't become 
involved in that until I got very interested in getting together with 
my partner of twenty-four  years, Sarah Douglas, who— we met, 
there was an advocacy group for women faculty called Advocates 
for Women Faculty that we were both founding members of. There 
were thirteen  of us, all tenured from all across campus, including 
the Law School. We met with at least three presidents, on issues of 
concern to women faculty. Sarah  and I were on the very activist, 
liberal end of the spectrum in that group.  I guess before that, I had 
canvased with her when the Oregon  Citizens Alliance tried to pass 
the horrible legislation against gays and lesbians. We canvased out 
in Veneta, which is where she was living at the time.  
Raiskin:  And this was 1993, probably?  
Vitulli:  Sounds right because we got together in 1994.  
Raiskin:  Oh, okay.  
Vitulli:  As a couple.  
Long:  Okay. All right, in 1994?   
Vitulli:  Yes. 
Long:  Okay. When did she come to campus?  
Vitulli:  She came in '83. She had a career before she went back to graduate 
school and got a PhD from Stanford, and then came here from 
Stanford.  
Raiskin:  Can you  tell us a little bit about your campaigning against Measure 
9, what that was like for you? What it seemed, what was 
happening?  
Vitulli:  It's not— I don't have very distinct memories. I was very upset that 
they were trying to pass this and I was already friends, good 
friends with Sarah and probably in the back of my mind, there was 
more than that. But, Veneta is a community just west, I guess, of 
Eugene or on the way to the coast. And  it's a very mixed 
community. There are some really great progressive people there 
and there are a lot of more rednecky type people there. And, when 
you canvas, you don't know what you're going to find, some 
people are nasty, and kind  of give you an earful and other people 
are very supportive. I had never done anything like that before, so 
it was a new experience for me.  
Raiskin:  So, was it scary going door to door? Talking about—  
Vitulli:  A little bit, but there were two of us, so it makes it a lot less scary.  
Long:  So, Ballot Measure 9, that was 1992.   
Vitulli:  Okay.  
Long:  Yeah, 1992.  
Vitulli:  It was a bad time if that had passed, and still to this day we don't 
frequent the businesses that supported that. 
Long:  In town?  
Vitulli:  Yes. Rexius  and Hirons come to mind.  
Long:  Okay.  
Vitulli:  Yeah, we don't  support  them.  
Long:  Yeah. 
Vitulli:  We don't shop there. Well, we try  not to shop there.  
Long:  Right. That's good to know. Were you aware, in 1989, the UO 
President Myles  Brand  set up the Task Force on Lesbian and Gay 
Concerns  and Sarah Douglas co-chaired that with Cheyney  Ryan.  
Vitulli:  That's right. I think that they urged—he didn't unilaterally decide 
that that was a necessary thing. He got friendly pushing too, but 
that was necessary.  
Long:  So, it took some urging?  
Vitulli:  It's my understanding. But, you should ask Sarah Douglas who 
remembers very well that whole experience. I was not involved in 
that. I was very active on campus, and other things including  
chairing the Status of Women Committee and as I said, this 
advocates group, I was very involved with that. But, I was not 
involved in the task force.  
Long:  Okay. Can you remind us again when you got together with Sarah, 
what year?  
Vitulli:  We got together in 1994 but the advocates group, I think it started, I 
didn't go through my notes on my computer. I think it started in 
‘92, and went till ‘91 or ‘92 went to ‘95. It started in part over the big 
scandal in Philosophy. The chair of the Philosophy Department 
Arnie Zweig, at the time was sexually harassing the women 
graduate students. Including quid pro quo. He would show up at 
some GTF’s apartment at night and if they wanted to be in good 
standing with their GTF, he’d tried to push his way in, and more 
than one student. It was a really bad situation and there was 
another— if I remember correctly, there  was in another situation, 
creative writing or trying to get them hired.  
Raiskin:  You, want to tell us like some of the things you worked on with the 
advocacy group for women faculty on campus, and some of the 
things that you're proud of having done?  
Vitulli:  Sexual harassment was  a huge thing. We, Sarah and I, and Caroline 
Forell  who was in the Law School, and Marlene Drescher, who at 
the time was the lawyer for the students, ASUO  lawyer. And, 
Cheyney helped us at the very end. Cheyney Ryan helped us at the 
very  end. We spent a very long time developing  the first current  
consensual  relations rule  that the university ever had. And, we 
created it and through a lot of politicking and well, there was a lot 
of thought involved in how  to get it through the Senate. And, 
Cheyney Ryan helped with that. Because a lot of the good old boys 
in the Senate, thought it was their privilege to— they— have 
relations with their students. We didn't get everything we wanted, 
but we did get something, and that was the first time that  was one 
big success. And, very— there were very many other things like the  
faculty network for women where they  had the meetings for 
promotion  and tenure and they had email lists and such  started by 
advocates. Geri  Richmond took control of it rather rapidly  and 
gained from whatever goodies were handed out from it. But, it was 
a positive thing for women faculty.  
Long:  Can you tell us, in this period you arrived to work at the University 
of Oregon, and then did your work, did this out of this advocacy 
work. And, then Sarah came, you knew Sarah. And, then you got 
together in 1994. In those intervening years, were you aware of 
LGBT activity on campus or in Eugene?  
Vitulli:  I think I was a little homophobic to tell you the truth. I didn't go 
there, I didn't go near there at all.  I guess I was aware of it, but I 
wasn't interested in participating in it in any way.  
Raiskin:  One of our interviewees suggested that we ask people about their 
experience of internalized homophobia during those years.   
Vitulli:  I don't think I was very self-reflective, so it just made me a little bit  
nervous sometimes to be around  real butchy women and real 
femmy  men. And, I didn't really examine why, but even when 
Sarah and I first got together, she had some friends that were real 
butchy, and kind of— it was a little bit hard for me to get used to 
that. But, it's different and you do— now, it doesn't bother me at 
all, but it did then.  
Raiskin:  So, what was it like for you to recognize in yourself these 
identifications?  
Vitulli:  It was difficult. Well, I think the thing— I think the event that 
triggered it is, I found out shortly before— I found out my brother 
was gay and he had been gay his whole life, and he hid it from the 
family. And, at the time he was living with somebody, and he was 
helping that person break a drug  habit. And, I asked them 
something about this person, and he told me about the drug 
problem this guy had. And, I said, "Well, that's not what I thought 
you were going to tell me." And, he said, "What did you think I was 
going to tell you?" "I thought you were going to tell me you were 
romantically involved with him."  
 And, he said, "Oh yeah, that's a problem, too."  Something like that. 
He didn't— but he won’t  talk about it. He's very closed. He won't 
talk about it, he's still not open even though he's retired. Then when 
that got out in my family, the other two kids— they were not kids, 
they were already adults. Both of them were married to opposite 
sex partners. And, in particular, my sister made all kinds of nasty  
remarks about my brother being gay. And, it was hard for me to 
tell her. But, Sarah was so out in the community and open, she 
would not— she made me tell everybody before we even got 
serious. I mean, I had to tell all my friends, I had to tell my 
relatives.  
Raiskin:  How did she persuade you to do that?  
Vitulli:  It was not negotiable. It was one of the things that wasn't 
negotiable. But, I think she did it— well, it wasn't— in part, she 
wanted me to have a support system if it didn't work out, that I 
would be able to— that my friends knew that this was going on in 
my life and that I would have somebody that— people to turn to. 
But, it wasn't negotiable.  
Raiskin:  So, if you were going to be with her, she said you needed to come 
out?  
Vitulli:  Yeah, I didn't have a problem with it.  
Raiskin:  And, what was that experience coming out to people?  
Vitulli:  It was— some people were great, unexpectedly great. Like there 
was a group of older faculty from Romance Languages that  I hung 
around with. I met them at the EMU lunch table. I used to go to the 
gym and swim almost every noon. And, then like, I'd come to the 
EMU late, and the Romance Language people would all be there. 
And, I got pretty friendly with some of them. And, then we started 
having Thanksgivings together and they— these older people, they  
just welcomed the two of us. It was really great. But other people 
that— I had other friends that wasn't so welcoming.  They didn't 
exactly know how to— what to make of it, that all of a sudden here 
I am with a woman, and my department— I don't think was, I 
think it was not so good at my department. I was the only— for 
almost my whole time I was the only woman researcher in my 
department. There were instructors, but they weren't tenure track 
people. And, then one other was in Math Ed, which a lot of my 
colleagues kind of look down on that. They don't see it as— and 
they, I was already getting some flack as a woman, especially some 
of the work I did on the Status of Women Committee, and the 
Advocates. But then when I took up with Sarah, I think that was 
also exactly that was the worst in their eyes. The worst thing. Oh 
no. The worst thing was when I started the union. That was the 
worst thing.  
Long:  What— can you explain what that is?  
Vitulli:  Yeah, it's called United Academics, for the University of Oregon. 
And, we started meeting, I'd have to look it up, but it was a very, 
very, very long process getting that union  passed. And, Sarah, was 
my partner, Sarah Douglas, was also involved in that. One thing 
that we did, was we took over very early and we strategize and we 
decided that we had to take control of the AAUP chapter on 
campus. Sarah and some of the others got very involved in that. 
They became— we held elections, which they never had. They were 
supposed to, but they never held formal elections for years. It just  
kind of rotated between a couple of people who I could name if you 
want.  
 And we had to get control away from them because this fairly early 
on we decided that we had to do a joint campaign between  AFT, 
American Federation of Teachers. And, we knew that that would 
never fly on this campus if we went just with them. So, we brought 
in AAUP. AAUP was more acceptable to many of the academics on 
campus, but they had no money and AFT had the deep pockets. So, 
after we met as a group without bringing the nationals in, we met 
for maybe two years. It was clear that it wasn't going anywhere, 
that we needed help. And, at the time, Gordon Lafer and I were the 
two who invited  AFT  and AAUP. And, I think Poli Sci,  as a joint 
appointment.  
Long:  And, LERC is the— 
Vitulli:  Labor Education  and Research  Center. Sorry. They have faculty 
lines. We invited those two nationals in, and we started the 
campaign. We brought people to campus from other campuses that 
had unions, and it was a huge time sink and there were all kinds of 
battles.  
Raiskin:  And, just to clarify this as a faculty union at a research university, 
which is unusual.  
Vitulli:  Yes, there were a handful that we made very public, other— 
Rutgers was one of them, some of the SUNY schools in New York, 
and we brought people from those campuses here to talk, and tell  
us their experiences. And, yeah, it was a very, very long process. 
And, at some point the politics got too much for me and my back 
just said, "I can't do it anymore." And, I had to step aside and let 
other people continue because— I don't really want to go into the 
details. It was some nastiness  with AFT, they were very hard to 
deal with. But, we prevailed.  
Long:  We have the union. 
Vitulli:  And, we have the union. And the union  involved— we originally 
hoped that the union would also involve OAs,  officers of 
administration, but they were— I think they were afraid to join in. 
A lot of them were afraid, because their positions weren't  as secure 
as tenure line faculty. And, we took everybody who—tenure track 
faculty, and adjuncts and everybody as many as we could. We took 
in the union, and I think it's been positive with all the changes 
we've had in the administration  and the view that the university is 
a business rather than a place of learning. And, yeah, that was a big 
part of my life doing that.  
Raiskin:  So, it sounds like you shifted some friends over this time, and 
maybe you didn't have support in your department and reached 
out to another faculty on campus.  
Vitulli:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  So, can you tell us something about your friendship circle, after  
getting together with Sarah and being involved in advocacy 
groups?   
Vitulli:  I made some friends on the Status of Women Committee that I 
continued for years, some of them. The big thing then was— what 
was the measure? There was this, there were some measures that 
cut funding to higher ed and at U of O, Norm Wessells  was 
Provost. And, they cut a lot of the School of Ed programs, and they 
cut many other programs like the Speech and Communications 
Department was eliminated. And, I was chair at that time and the 
cuts disproportionately affected women and I— we reacted to that 
and there were some people on Status of Women Committee that 
were very active at that time. So, I'm not so active that I became 
good friends with, one of whom lost her job when the Speech and 
Communications Department was cut. And, she was just coming 
up for tenure, and they just— those people, they say goodbye to. 
And, that person was Julie Burke. She went to Bowling Green 
University. After that, she died very young, of cancer. The 
advocate, Advocates for Women Faculty, a lot of them remain my 
good friends and we still get together sometimes informally. 
Caroline Forell I already mentioned was in Law. Sarah Douglas, I 
mentioned, Computer Science, Barbara Pope, who I think was in 
the Honors College at that time. Judith Eisen in Biology, Kathy 
Cashman, who left here and is now a member  of the National 
Academy of Sciences. She was in Geology. Geri  Richmond in 
Chemistry is also now in the National Academy of Sciences. Diane 
Hawley  in Chemistry was in it. Carol Silverman in Anthropology. 
These are all incredibly strong women who did all kinds of things 
for the university. Oh, Janis  Weeks from Biology  [and Jennifer  
Freyd from Psychology]. Yeah. It was self-selected and most of 
them  I still consider good friends of mine today. The union—there 
was a core group in the union that— they were terrific. I mean 
that— I mentioned Gordon  Lafer, but he left in the middle of all 
everything. He had some union job in Hawaii, I think it was.  I don't 
remember he left, but there was a core of people. Daniel Pope was 
involved. I think Barbara was already kind of retired or partly 
retired. Amanda Powell and Dianne Dugaw, were in it from the 
beginning and stayed with it through the end. Some people from 
LERC, Marcus Widenor, who had an article in the paper today 
about fair share, the Supreme Court. I don't know, a bunch of 
people were really, really, I mean, it took a lot of work to get that to 
happen. And, Marlene Drescher signed on as the— one of the 
recruiters that went around trying to get people to become 
interested in the union and eventually signed cards. She got 
involved in that through me.  
Long:  By the time you and Sarah got together in 1994, the  Ballot Measure 
9, the anti-gay Ballot Measure 9, failed in 1992. Do you have a 
memory of what those times were like or, what your feelings were 
when all of this was happening?  
Vitulli:  I remember some of the videos they made the hateful videos, like 
some of the— there was one about, I think about teachers that— 
they're trying to get people to  believe that the teachers were after 
the children. There was one horrible video of that. I think a gay 
male teacher, I don't remember details, but some of the stuff that  
they put out, the ads, the TV ads, the newspaper ads were horrible 
and a lot of people did a lot of work to— I did a little bit of work, 
but a lot of people did a lot of work to defeat those measures. And, 
I was very glad that they did. We did defeat them.  
Raiskin:  Did you and Sarah get involved or hang out in any spaces in 
Eugene that lesbian community would meet or coffee shops or I 
don't know, just trying to get feeling of from when you  met her 
onward?  
Vitulli:  A lot of the community that she talked about existing in Eugene 
and before we got together was already kind of, it wasn't— they 
weren't as active as they were then. There was a group, she lived in 
Veneta, she had a farm, an eleven  acre farm. I lived there for five 
years, but there was a whole community, I think it was called 
Dykes in the Country, you should we ask her about it. But there 
was a strong community of people that help each other. If they 
needed something done at the farm, they'd all— they'd show up 
and help each other. And, they also had a lot of parties. But by the 
time I came along, I think that group had petered out. And, then, it 
wasn't really for a short time, there was some kind of, bar, coffee 
shop, but we didn't frequent to it. We went to the Wayward Lamb. 
That's a lot more recently. And, that's older. A couple of times, it 
seemed more gay men than  women. We used to go to Portland 
sometimes, to go to gay bars to dance. Because there  wasn't much 
in Eugene. I think it was the Panorama Room maybe, in Portland. 
And there was another place that turned into a women's bar. I can't  
remember. But, we went, we found a few places in Portland and 
then in San Francisco. We found some places in San Francisco when 
we went down there. In fact,  Sarah's mother who was old by the 
time we got together, found us someplace near where they live. It 
was kind of funny, but she was very happy that Sarah found 
somebody .  
Raiskin:  Were you were able to find other lesbian couples to socialize with if 
not in public places in your own group?  
Vitulli:  Yeah, we did the— we tried— well, there was one couple in 
particular, I don't know, like how out people— 
Raiskin:  You don’t have to say. 
Vitulli:  There was one other couple, one of whom was at U of O, and 
partner was taught, K-12 who were very friendly with, and then 
the partner died a couple of years ago. It was very, very hard. Oh, I 
did, I can't believe I forgot to mention Sandi Morgen, was also on 
Advocates for Women Faculty. She died, just recently from  ovarian 
cancer. She was a big force in the group, too. This friend died from 
ovarian cancer. That's why I thought of it. Yeah. So, that couple we 
did a lot with, because we share the same anniversary, two of our 
birthdays where within  a couple of days of each other, and we did 
a lot together. A lot of other—we tried, and we invited lesbian 
couples to our house and tried a lot of things. Just didn't work for 
some reason or another. It didn't work. We have a lot of casual 
friends, but not uh—we have the oddest thing happened, not in  
Eugene, but I'm going to the opera  in San Francisco. We've been 
doing this for over ten years now, but ten years ago on our way to 
the opera, we ended having dinner at a café, and there were two 
women at a table next to us. And, I, I'm kind of very busybody  on 
the social, I'm very social. Sarah's very shy at first until so she 
knows you, and then she won't stop talking. But, at first she was 
very shy and there were two women and I said to her, "I think 
they're academics, we should, we should see if we can get to know 
them." And, it turned out that they weren't academics, one is a 
lawyer, had her own law practice and the other one was the ER 
doctor and we thought they were a couple but turned out that 
they're just best friends but they're both lesbians. We have become 
really good friends. You know, whenever we go down to San 
Francisco, which we do four or five times a year, we get together 
and then we've met their friends and a lot of their friends are 
lesbians. So, it's been fun. And, we also all go to Ashland together. 
We rent a house.  
Raiskin:  Ashland is where the Oregon Shakespeare festival—  
Vitulli:  Yes, Ashland is where the Oregon Shakespeare festival is, and they 
know some lesbians that own a house there and only let their 
friends stay in the house. And, it's a great— it's really a lot of fun. 
It's a five bedroom house with a cottage in the backyard. Fully 
equipped within easy walking distance and coincidental that our 
two lesbian— another very close lesbian friends are found in San  
Francisco. Just happened. They come up here too. Came for the 
opera, this New Year's Eve.  
Long:  I guess I have a more of a basic question about your getting 
together with Sarah. It seems like— well it'd be nice if you could 
talk about what it was like to not— to all of a sudden get into a 
relationship like this, not having any feelings before that. Can you 
describe what your feelings were?  
Vitulli:  I think I did have feelings before, but I just kind of squashed them. 
But, Sarah and I were friends and allies  before I discovered that I 
wanted more than that. And, then I had to chase her. I had to 
convince her. She didn't want to get involved with a straight 
woman. And, I had to convince her that I wanted more than a fling. 
So, we proceeded very slowly, but I didn't really have anybody to 
talk to about this because, people— because I wasn't sure how they 
would take it. And, I— one friend I did a little bit by email and she 
said to me, “What? Are you crazy?” or something like, you know, 
“You’re going  too fast” or “What? are you sure?” I was pretty sure 
what I wanted and I just went after it and I convinced her 
eventually I wasn't just after a fling, and I really wanted to be with  
her. And, she had some people that were in my— somehow 
thought it might be a good idea for her. And, they pushed her— 
not pushed her, they supported the idea and it finally— we got 
together.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever get domestic partnership or how did the marriage 
equality movement affect you?   
Vitulli:  We did write domestic partnership agreements, and have the 
lawyer or lawyers look at it. We have that, we don't have a— it's 
notarized. It hasn't been filed with the city, but— and marriage, we 
think it's great that it's possible, but particularly Sarah doesn't 
believe in the institution of marriage. And, so we're not interested 
in getting married and getting married again and getting married 
again when the law changes. And, now with Trump's Supreme 
Court  picks, I wouldn't be surprised if it goes away again. We'll see 
what happens. But, no we haven't. But we have all the legal 
paperwork necessary in case one of us becomes ill, one of us 
becomes mentally incapable. We have all kinds of legal documents, 
and we  share that information with other people that they need. So, 
we're prepared.  
Raiskin:  Did you seek out, a gay or lesbian attorney to help you with that?  
Vitulli:  We, both have, well, initially I had a lesbian attorney. We were 
friends with a lesbian attorney in town and her partner and who, I 
think I was referred to her partner, one of her partners who was 
also lesbian, originally. But, then they both retired. Sarah currently 
has a lesbian attorney. My attorney was a guy, my second attorney 
was a guy, but the— all the lesbians like him, trust him and stuff. 
So, yes, we did have— I have Diane DePaolis  as my attorney  and 
her partner was Pat Vallerand, who just died four weeks ago. And, 
Sarah's attorney is  Ellen Adler.   
Raiskin: It's nice that there's a— it's interesting in Eugene that there's a 
network of lesbian professionals. That  people tell each other about, 
yeah.  
Vitulli:  Yeah. Sarah had for a while— had a lesbian physician. She had to 
retire, too.  
Long:  Are there any other points that you'd like to talk about?  
Vitulli:  I don’t know. I didn't think that much about what you might be 
interested in.  
Long:  Yeah. Okay.  
Raiskin:  Are you planning to stay in Eugene?  
Vitulli:  I think at least part of the year. The winters— or, Sarah doesn't like 
the winters here. They're kind of dreary. It's like monotonous, 
endless gray  and no bright  sun. We've talked about buying a place  
and spending the least part of the winter somewhere else. But, I 
don't think we're going to  totally leave this state, although I would 
consider it, because I think  a lot of things about Oregon, including 
the tax structure,  I don't like.  
Raiskin:  Well, it also sounds like maybe you connect culturally with people 
in San Francisco.  
Vitulli:  But, it's so  expensive— one can't— unless one wants to put all their 
resources into  living. We like visiting there, but I don't think we 
would like to live there. It's too expensive. And, the other thing is,  
it's really depressing and they've worked hard at getting rid  of or 
helping homeless people, but it's still really awful. Number of 
people on the street, and a lot of them out of their mind. You kind 
of get— I kind of get startled when someone takes down their pants 
and poops on the street. It's weird. I can't really help solve this. I 
don't know.  
Raiskin:  I remembered to ask you about your and Sarah's house. I know you 
took a lot of pleasure in buying your house  and working on it.  
Vitulli:  Well, that was the deal. The deal was after I moved into her house 
for five years, that we would, we took our time, moved very, very 
slowly. We dated for three years I think before we talked about 
living together, and then I lived with her in her house for five years. 
And, I guess after eight years we decided, well, I think we're going 
to be together for a while. So, the deal was if everything worked 
out all right, we would look  for a house together. We started 
looking and then it took us like a year and a half. We looked at so 
many houses, and we put five offers down, several of them full 
offers. And, we didn't get them in neighborhoods that we thought 
we wanted to live in. We thought we wanted to live near the— near 
the university, Fairmount area that— and we're very happy that we 
didn't get a house there, because of the arena. And, then we ended 
up with this house, which is— we just kind of accidentally drove, 
driving down the street. We were about to give up looking. We 
were about to remodel our house in Veneta and just call it quits. 
But, we went by this house and there was one of those signs up in  
the front for sale by owner with the flyers. So, we picked— and the 
owners just put that up like the day before. And, then we took a 
flyer and we go, “Hmm,” this house seems pretty good.  
 And, I really wasn't interested. It's a hundred-plus year old 
craftsman bungalow and it only had three or four different 
occupants before we bought it. And, the last occupants who we 
bought it from, they spent like fourteen, fifteen  years restoring, and 
they kept a lot of the original house. But, then they remodeled 
because if they didn't remodel, I never would have been sold on 
that house. But, they remodeled the kitchen, they made a family 
room, they'd pushed out a mud  porch and they remodeled the 
bathrooms. So, everything— your living areas were brand new 
and— but it's on the Eugene historic register. And, it's a special— 
it's a very special house. It's simply a neat house. Not everything 
you would want, but very neat nonetheless.  
Raiskin:  I'm wondering how you think being  a lesbian might impact your 
aging?  
Vitulli:  We've been concerned about that.  We went to— of all groups, 
AARP  had a special meeting this past spring for gay people, aging 
gay people. And, the different, some of the different challenges that 
they face, and  we thought it was a really good event. And, we're 
interested in— well, they  talked about all kinds of problems 
including, gays and lesbians when they go to some of these 
retirement places. They're afraid to come out and the providers 
don't know how to deal with them.  This one-day workshop that the  
AARP  ran had not just gays and lesbians but older people.  But they 
also had a lot of providers, local places, which we thought was 
good and we told them some of our experiences where it was, you 
know, “Yuck, you need to fix this.” Like, Sarah and I— I’m going to 
get sidetracked. But  one thing that we're really interested in is 
communities where a bunch of us could get together, and have 
little places where we each live with them. We can keep an eye on 
each other and a bigger place where we can all get together. There 
are places like that and, well, there's a place in northern 
Washington that some professors at UW, a woman started and I 
don't know. We heard about some places at this thing that we went 
to and haven't really done very much about it, but we would love 
to do something like that. Buy land or get land or, we went to some 
thing that, not a lesbian  group, but some lawyer in town had some 
land downtown, and he wanted to do co-op housing on it. And, 
that's  a great idea. But, if we went to a meeting and we both 
decided that this guy wanted to control everything, and it would 
never work  for us. And, this has never happened.  
 We went to the meeting over ten years ago. It never happened. But, 
we have friends that would be interested, but I don't know how to 
make that happen. I might know, or so, the Van Houten's, Don 
Houten  and his wife, have a small arrangement like this with the 
Peases. Yeah, it's very nice. So, they have two little houses that they 
built. One of them is an architect— that they built in the back of a 
big old house. And, they use the big old house for if they want to 
cook together or if they have company, whatever. And, then they   
each have their own place. So, they have privacy as well. And, I 
read about places, not just lesbians, but I read about places where 
they do something similar to that. And, there's several dwellings 
and we would love to get in on something like that as we age.  
Long:  Is that in Eugene? The Van Houtens?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Vitulli:  Yeah. It's near the Whit, kind of on the edge of the Whit. It's really 
neat what they did. And then we have an— we know a lesbian that 
said, “Well, what we should all should do is take over the top floor 
of the Eugene Hotel.” I don't know how  serious— Harriet Rubin, 
do you know her?  Yeah. There were a bunch of—she used to 
organize dance classes for lesbians. It was fun. We did a few of 
them.  
Long:  What kind of dance?  
Vitulli:  Ballroom, Salsa. It was a lot of fun.  
Raiskin: Anything else you would like us to ask or that you want to make 
sure we understand?  
Vitulli:  I started  on something and then I didn't want to get sidetracked, 
but now I don't— Oh ,yeah. Some of the senior places in town, like 
our experiences— Cascade Manor  is always sending postcards and 
phoning us  to come and see their new this or their new that. And, 
the last time we went, they invited us to come to some event there 
and their recruiter people, I don't know what you call them. The  
recruiter person was asking and  telling us all about how great it is 
there. And, they had some— one younger person talking to us. 
And, so I asked them, “How many gays and lesbians live here?” 
And, he goes, like,”Uh…”  The thought had never crossed his mind. 
And, then he goes, "Oh, well, we have a lesbian on the staff."  
 Well, we do know, there's at least one gay man that lives there that 
we know of, Al Urquhart. And, then also that the Tate, we know 
some people who live at the Tate, which is a very high end 
apartment building, Jean Tate  who started Tate, the Tate  real estate 
company, was a prime mover in getting this thing built. And, we 
have friends that want to try to get us interested in buying a place 
there and they go, “And people like you would be okay there.” So, 
when we went to this AARP  thing, we mentioned to the people 
who run these things that you should work on Cascade Manor and 
maybe even the Tate for them to be a little bit more educated, I 
don't know the right word is.  
Long:  It seems to be a topic that people are talking about as people start to 
age, get to that point.  
Vitulli:  Yeah. This workshop that they did, I think they should repeat it. It 
was really good. We got a lot of materials, and I did get cards from 
some people,  a lot of them are based in Portland. They weren't 
based here and they now have a— somebody, I think a gay man 
that works within AARP  in Oregon to address gay concerns. I 
joined it because you get discounts to places,  some other things that 
you get, too.   
Long:  Well, thank you so much, Marie.  
Vitulli:  You're welcome.  
Long:  This has been really good.  
Raiskin:  Really nice.  
Long:  Yeah, we appreciate it.  
Raiskin:  You're welcome.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  