 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Evelyn Anderton on August 28, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies.  The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives  and 
professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Evelyn, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Anderton:  I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Anderton:  I'm happy.  
Long:  Thank you. Let's just begin with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born and something about your 
growing up years?  
Anderton:  Okay, I was born in San Francisco, California, June 19, 1946, and 
grew up in a suburb of San Francisco called Atherton, which back 
then was the furthest suburb from the city that you could still get in 
there on the train easily because my father worked at the San 
Francisco Chronicle, so he went into work every day. Went to 
Catholic schools for my first two years of elementary school, and 
then my father got a Nieman  fellowship to Harvard, so we moved 
to Cambridge, Massachusetts, then spent two years in Westport, 
Connecticut moving several times during that time.  
 Then my mother left my father. He was unfortunately an abusive 
man, so she escaped and went back to San Francisco and he stayed 
on the east coast. Again, I went to Catholic schools and through 
high school, and actually the last two years, I was at a boarding 
school in Monterey, California.  
Raiskin: Were they all-girl schools?  
Anderton:  They were all-girl schools. They were. Then I left or I graduated 
from high school in 1964 from my little Catholic girls boarding 
school and went to UC Berkeley, which was quite a culture change.  
Nineteen sixty-four  was of course the time of all the demonstration 
and anti-war as well as political trying to get the politicians and the 
parties to be allowed to be on campus and all of that, so that was an 
exciting time to be there. I managed to avoid most of the tear gas, 
but not all. Then— 
Raiskin: Well, can I ask you something about your high school years?  
Anderton:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: What kind of a kid were you and how was that transition to 
Berkeley for you?  
Anderton:  Well, I've always been tall. I remember sixth grade, dance picture of 
all of us kids and the chaperones who were there and I was the 
tallest person in the picture, including the chaperones. I've always 
been tall, so when I was in high school, I played basketball and 
volleyball, which were the two sports that girls played back then. I 
was a sports person. I was an average student. I enjoyed playing 
the guitar and playing folk songs, so we would all sit around and 
do that a lot.  
 It was a good school. It was a prep school, so it was meant to get 
you ready for college. I always say I can remember from a very 
early age my parent's friends when they were introduced to me 
saying, "Are you planning to go to  college?" It was something that 
we were supposed to do and we did, and the good thing about 
going to UC Berkeley back in 1964 was that it was free and before  
Ronald Reagan, so students today are shocked to hear that, 
needless to say, but yeah.  
 It was a good school. Almost all of the professors were men, and 
even though in Berkeley there was a large African American 
neighborhood not that far from the campus, almost all of the 
students were white, some Asian, but there were very, very few 
African American students. It was an interesting, again, privileged 
place to be. Yes, there were demonstrations against the status quo 
and all of that, but it was still a privileged group of young people 
who were going there at that time and probably today. Yeah.  
Raiskin: What did you major in?  
Anderton:  English, what the girls major in. What were your choices back then? 
You could become a nurse or a teacher or a secretary. I ended up, 
after graduated from Berkeley, going to first San Francisco State 
and then University of San Francisco to get a teaching credential, 
and the reason that I switched was because at San Francisco State in 
that year, there were hardly any classes that could happen because 
the demonstration were so intense, and we were told that if we 
wanted to get our credentials, we better get out of there because we 
wouldn't be considered educated enough to get them, so I went 
over to USF and finished up there.  
 Then I substituted in the San Francisco public schools for three 
years, I think, and that was really instructive for me because, of 
course, most of the teachers who needed to take time off were in  
the Fillmore District or near Candlestick Park. Oh, Hunters Point, 
that was the other one which were African American communities 
then that hadn't been integrated  at all, so here I was, this privileged 
white girl walking into these neighborhoods where I had not been 
before very much.  
 It was good for me. I remember one time I had a second— I think it 
was the first-second grade class and it was after lunch, and I said, 
"Okay, everybody sit down and I'm going to read you a book," and 
I picked up a book and went like this and I said, "We're going to 
read The Owl and the Pussycat," and they all started hooting, "You 
hear what that lady said? She said pussy."  
 It was educational for me, probably much more for me than for 
them. I did that, and then during that time, I started dating a man 
who was getting his PhD in philosophy and we started living 
together, and then we got married and then he got a job at the 
University of  Wisconsin in Oshkosh, so we moved to Oshkosh and 
I spent five years there.  
 Then I realized that I wasn't in the right place or the right 
relationship, so without telling him exactly why, I left and I've 
often said that I think one of the best reasons for  heterosexuals to 
accept lesbian and gay relationships is all the people that we hurt 
by trying to prove that we're not who we are, and that's one of the 
things that I feel the most guilty about in my life is doing that to 
him.   
Long: When did you realize that you were gay?  
Anderton:  I think I knew it younger. I think it I knew it when I was in high 
school, actually, but I didn't act upon it until I left him and I moved 
to Eugene in 1977.  
Raiskin: Did you have negative ideas about being a lesbian?  
Anderton:  No, I didn't. It seems odd I think that I would grow up in San 
Francisco or spent time in San Francisco and grow up there, which 
was the gay capital of the United States even back then, and my 
mother had gay friends and mostly gay men. They like to have gay 
men because if women were divorced and you were having a 
dinner party, then you could set up the table so it was man, 
woman, man, woman, man, woman around the table by using gay 
men. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Did you see lesbians when you were growing up or in college? Was 
there any visibility?  
Anderton:  Gay men were more out there than lesbians were. My mother had a 
friend who had actually been married three times and turned out 
that I spent a lot of time with. She had dogs and she used to take 
me to dog shows when  I was twelve, thirteen, fourteen. She had 
whippets, and I would go down to her house most afternoons and 
walk her dogs and stuff. It turned out that after a while, she 
emigrated to Ireland to live with a woman over there and she died 
and Ireland, so I think she was always a lesbian, but she did it three 
times. I only did it once, so I guess I feel better about it.   
Raiskin: You came to Eugene and came out.  
Anderton:  Right, I came to Eugene and came out pretty soon after I got here.  
Raiskin: What'd you know about Eugene?  
Long: Why did you come to Eugene?  
Anderton:  I came to Eugene because my best friend from high school had 
come here. She'd married and her husband was studying here and 
they moved to the east coast, and then when she left him, she came 
back to  Eugene, because she was from San Francisco, but she didn't 
want to go and live in the city, so she came back to Eugene because 
she liked it. Six months later, I figure I'm going to there to, so I took 
off and came, and we lived together for a couple of years. 
 Then she moved out to Marcola and I realized that I wanted to live 
in town and be more a part of this scene, so I moved into town and 
that's when I had my first relationship.  
Raiskin: Did you know anything about Eugene and the lesbian community 
before you came?  
Anderton:  No. 
Raiskin: No? 
Anderton:  No. I didn't. That was not the draw necessarily.  
Raiskin: What did that community look like to you when you saw it here?   
Anderton:  What did the community look like? Well, it was a little later than 
that, but going to concerts and doing that kind of thing, I saw that 
there was a good strong lesbian community here, and when I first 
moved here, there was more of a gay community then it then 
happened. Something happened to that community, so it was 
mostly lesbians. Although, I remember one time going to ... What 
was the bar downtown?  
Raiskin: The Riviera  Room? 
Anderton:  Yeah, I think so. There were both men and women in there and I 
was standing at the bar drinking a beer or something and this guy 
came up,  and all of a sudden, I realized he was flirting with me and 
he thought I was a man, so I had to tell him that I wasn't and I left.  
Long: Now again, what year was it that you came to Eugene?  
Anderton:  1977.  
Long: '77. 
Anderton:  Yeah. I got a job when I got  here. It was an opening to work in the 
admissions office at Lane Community College, and I thought, 
"Well, that'd be a good way to get to know a community," so I went 
out there and did that. Then Lane Community College had a 
program, a vocational training program for adults with 
developmental disabilities as we called them back then, and they 
had an opening for secretaries, so I went and got that job and then  
became a trainer there with my teaching skills and did that for 
about five years.  
 That was a really satisfying job. Then I remember my sister said, 
"The first time you came out to me, you told me that you were 
dating your boss' daughter," and I hung up and then I went, "Wait 
a minute. She's dating her what? Wait a minute. What is this?"  
Raiskin: Was that your first relationship here?  
Anderton:  Pretty much, yeah. Yeah. Then, I don't know, I did that and then I 
worked Alvord Taylor for two years, so I spent about, oh, seven or 
so years working in that field. Then I got involved with Rape Crisis 
Network, which is now Sexual Assault Support Services, and it was 
the crisis line for women who had been sexually assaulted. I was on 
the board and a volunteer on the crisis line and did all of that and 
really got involved in the whole issue of violence against women. 
Raiskin: What drew you to that work?  
Anderton:  I think growing up in a violent home drew me to the work and 
violence against women. I'm trying to remember what ... Rape 
Crisis Network was really active in the community back then and I 
knew some people who were doing it and I got drawn in by that 
first, and then I got the job as the director of Womenspace. 
Actually, Janet, my now wife, but we were living together then and 
I got the job as co-directors, so we were supposed to each work 
half-time and Womenspace was at that point just a shelter and  
crisis line for battered women and had no community office or 
anything.  
 We were at the shelter, and I remember we got paid $17,000 a year 
for the two of us, so after a year, Janet said, "I think I'm going to get 
another job so we have a little more money." I stayed there for 11 
years and was really involved in helping to expand it, so we moved 
out into the community. We started the Domestic Violence Council 
so that we were working with the police and the district attorney 
and anybody in town that had anything to do with battered women 
to try to make it an issue that everybody was paying attention to.  
 I got involved in the statewide coalition for domestic and sexual 
violence and went around the state to different programs, and we 
all worked together. We worked together especially when women 
were— if they were the wife of a police officer, the police knew 
where the shelter was. It wasn't hidden from them, so we would 
have to get them out of town fast and we could send  them to a 
shelter somewhere else, so we all knew each other and we could 
call each other and say, "I have somebody that needs to get out of 
town." It was a really exciting time to be doing that work because 
there was a lot of interest all the sudden during the '90s.  
Raiskin: And you—  
Long: That was in the 1990s?  
Anderton:  Yeah.   
Raiskin: You served many more women over those years. Womenspace 
grew under those, in those years? 
Anderton:  Yes, we grew. We started a transition program and bought an 
apartment house so that when women left that there would be 
someplace for them to go, because whenever the population at the 
university increased, it was just impossible to find housing for 
them because the cost of housing went up so much and it wasn't 
there, so we tried to figure out other ways to help them stabilize 
before they moved on.  
 We just started working more with different organizations, and we 
got into the medical field in the sense that doctors started asking 
about domestic violence, and we had our pamphlets in all the 
doctors’  offices all over town and that kind of thing. Just anywhere 
we could, we would be out there trying to get people more 
conscious, and as I say, it was very satisfying.  
Raiskin: Was it difficult emotionally to deal with that topic for  so many 
years?  
Anderton:  Yeah. It was tiring, and it's a 24/7 kind of job because the crisis line 
goes twenty-four  hours a day, and if something happened that 
needed— a volunteer had something that needed to talk to a staff 
person and couldn't get hold of  whoever was on backup at that 
point, they would call me, so it was exhausting, but it was— I don't 
know— we really worked well together. We had a lot of good  
people who work there and it was really fun moving the office out 
of the shelter because before that, nobody could come to my office.  
 We moved it out of the shelter and into the community, and we 
were so excited, and I remember the first day, we couldn't decide if 
we should keep the door locked or not. It was kind of scary being 
there on the corner of Sixteenth  and Oak and just in this office and 
anybody could walk in and who was likely to come, and we never 
did have an incident there in terms of an abuser coming in and 
threatening us, but we wondered if that would happen— 
Raiskin: Wow.  
Anderton:  —once we were advertising where we were, so that was good.  
Raiskin: How did you meet Janet?  
Anderton:  I had been traveling, but I was back and Rape Crisis Network had a 
fair about women and all different women's issues, and Janet was 
involved with Women's Action for Nuclear Disarmament, and I 
helped organize the fair, so I was there. I had been in Australia and 
so many of the people that I met there said to me, "We are so scared 
of your country and your nuclear policies. You have got to go back 
and do something about it."  
 I came back and I met Janet at this and it was like, "Oh, this is a 
coincidence, isn't it?" within a month of being back, so I got 
involved with WAND and we started doing that, and that was in 
1986, so we've been together since then. Whatever we were allowed  
to do to prove our relationship, we did, all different steps, and now 
we're married, which is nice. It's amazing what a difference— I 
don't know. It's the idea that I think— 
Raiskin: What did each of the steps of marriage feel like to you?  
Anderton:  Well, it felt like making more of a commitment, but it also felt like 
saying to the world we're worthy of this. You shouldn't deny this to 
us and that it doesn't make— of course, things have changed. As 
we said, we never thought we'd be able to get married in our 
lifetime, and it was  that whole hundredth  monkey thing. It was 
just, "How did that happen so fast?" Yeah.  
Raiskin: Let's step back to some of the anti-gay initiatives that were in 
Eugene while you were here. Were you involved in any of those 
ballot measures, the eight and nine and thirteen  and nine? Fifty-
one. 
Anderton:  There were a lot of them, weren't there? Involved in the sense of I 
signed petitions and did that kind of thing. I wasn't actively 
involved because I was so involved with the work that I was doing.  
Raiskin: Did it make Oregon or Eugene feel less hospitable to you?  
Anderton:  In one way, it did, and in other way because of the everybody was 
who was working against it, it felt like that there was a strong 
group and that it was just that fringe that was doing it as happens. 
Was that around the time that a lot of gay men left because it was 
just too scary to live here? I don't know.   
Raiskin: It's hard to know.  
Anderton:  Yeah, it's hard to know. Yeah.  
Long: If we could go back to when you were working at LCC, were you 
out to people there or were you closeted?  
Anderton:  Well, I was only the admissions office for one year and I wasn't out 
there, then when I was at the Activities Center, LCC Activities 
Center, especially when I started dating my boss' daughter, I was 
out and the people that I worked with were fine. It was a small— 
there were I think six or seven of us on staff and it was fairly small 
and everybody there was fine with it. There wasn't any feeling 
about it.  
Long: Then were out with your other work?  
Anderton:  Well, at Womenspace, I was certainly out and at Rape Crisis 
Network, yeah. At Alvord Taylor at that time, the director was a 
lesbian and lived with her partner, so— 
Long: Can you explain  what that is, Alvord Taylor? 
Anderton:  Oh, sorry. Alvord Taylor is a residential program for adults with 
developmental disabilities and it's still around. What I did was they 
had had group homes or a group home where people lived, and 
then they decided some of those people were capable of living 
within their own apartments in the community, so my job was to 
go and meet with them. They all worked six hours a day at a ... like  
the Work Activity Center or some other center where they had 
people employed, so they would be home in the evenings.  
 I would go and meet with them in the afternoon and evenings and 
teach them how to cook, make sure they were paying their bills, 
teach them how to do that, try to figure out how to get them a 
social life going, which was the hardest part, and I felt sometimes 
that it was nicer for them to be in a group home than to be living 
like that in an apartment where they were so isolated. Their 
neighbors often were friendly. They'd say hello and stuff, but they 
weren't interested in being their friends necessarily, so there were 
activities that they could do, but it was hard for them to get out, 
and then if it was on the weekend, the buses don't run as much and 
they had to get everywhere on the bus.  
 I really enjoyed the people that I worked with. They were really 
fun. When I was working at the downtown center, we opened a 
cafeteria in the basement or a sandwich shop. One day, one of the 
women knew how to write so she could take the orders, so people 
would come up to the window, and one day this woman came up 
to the window and said, "I would like a ham sandwich, please," 
and Julie looked at her and said, "You would like a ham 
sandwich?" That's not how she talked.  
 Yes, so she brought it down and I went up to Julie afterwards and I 
said, "Hey, I totally understand why you did that, but you can't do 
that. The customer's always right and you just have to be polite,"  
and she said, "Yeah, but," and I said, "I know. I know." They were 
really fun. I enjoyed them.  
Long: I'm wondering if you could tell us what your impressions of 
Eugene were when you came in '77. What was it like?  
Anderton:  Oh, that's an interesting question. Well, it was definitely small 
town, although I'd been living in Oshkosh which was 50,000 
people, but it felt like that. I liked it because of all the nature that 
was around that you could get to the mountains and you get to the, 
you know— 
Long: Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Anderton:  —beach and you could get— when I left Wisconsin, I said, "I'm 
never going to live that far away from the Pacific Ocean again," 
because it's just so rejuvenating, so I really liked that part. I found 
people here friendly and just an easy place to live. I wasn't at all 
tempted to go back to San Francisco even though my family was 
there, but big city life doesn't appeal to me for living. I like to visit 
them and do all the things you do in big cities, but yeah.  
Raiskin: Did you feel that when you look around the different social 
agencies that were social service agencies that seemed, in those 
years, that many of them were headed by lesbians?  
Anderton:  That's true.   
Raiskin: Yeah. What other people were you working with and that if you 
were working  with colleagues and different agencies, did you find 
that to be productive?  
Anderton:  Let's see. Oh, boy. Now you're making me remember back.  
Raiskin: I feel like All Women's Health  where Sally was and SAS and 
Womenspace and others, I'm sure.  
Anderton:  Yeah, I'm sure there were lots of them, and I think part of that may 
have been that our lives were freer because back then, some 
lesbians had children, but a lot of us didn't, and it wasn't easy to do 
or as easy, maybe. To run something like Womenspace where it 
was a lot of time, you could do that and not take time away from 
your children, which I think is a really hard balancing act for 
women, because I always say that raising children  is the most 
important job that anybody ever does because it affects the future 
so much, so spent time doing that.  
 I'm trying to think. Okay. I'm sure if I gave this a lot of thought, I 
could come up with the names of other lesbians and the other 
organizations we worked with. Who else was on the Domestic 
Violence Council?  
Raiskin: Or Planned Parenthood or?  
Anderton:  Yeah, who was running Planned Parenthood back in the '90s? I 
should be able to remember that, but you're ... Yeah, it's not going 
to happen.   
Raiskin: It's interesting the network there amongst social service agencies.  
Anderton:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: Yeah.  
Anderton:  The network was strong. We worked with St Vinnie’s  and Catholic 
Community Services of course to try to get housing, and then— 
Long: Where did funding come for these organizations you worked for?  
Anderton:  Well, for Womenspace, some of it was fundraised and that 
increased a lot as we moved on because it had to. There was some 
government funding and then of course ... Can you remember 
when the Violence Against Women Act was finally passed? Then 
we would get federal funding from that. As it is today, back then, 
we didn't pay good salaries because we didn't have the money, and 
I wish we could change that even today.  
Raiskin: What were your social networks like then? What did you do and 
who did you do it with?  
Anderton:  Well, let's see. What did we do? Janet and I, we have a lot of lesbian 
friends and non-lesbian friends, too, and we have people over for 
dinner and socialize in that way. We've played bridge a lot. We 
play bridge with people. We play other games with people. We go 
camping. We used to have a tent trailer and camp a lot with 
friends, and what else did we do back then?   
Raiskin: Did you go to any collective restaurants or bookstores or play 
softball or any of the archetypal lesbian things?  
Anderton:  No, we didn't do a lot of that. We would go to Mother Kali's and 
buy things and things like that.  
Raiskin: Do you remember what you were reading in those days?  
Anderton:  I liked to read fiction, so I read the lesbian authors of that era. We'd 
go to the movies a lot with friends. I love movies. Yeah, my mind is 
a blank all of a sudden.  
Long: Had you thought about why there might have been a large lesbian 
community in Eugene? We're wondering why Eugene?  
Anderton:  Well, I think because it is a liberal community, so it feels 
comfortable to be here. I'm trying to think if I can think of times 
where people have made disparaging remarks about me because I 
was a lesbian, and it doesn't seem like that happens, and then once 
a place becomes known as accessible, I think then people move 
there, but I don't know. That's hopefully something that people 
who have moved here more recently will be telling you in these 
stories because that would be interesting to know why are there so 
many of us here, and do we even know how many of us there are? 
Yeah.  
Long: Have you thought about what was it about your personality or 
temperament that allowed you to be so successful working in these 
social service organizations?   
Anderton:  Well. Let's see. My personality. I try to keep things light, as light as 
you can within the circumstances, and I know that the joke at 
Womenspace was that I kept hiring Geminis because I'm a Gemini, 
so one of the staff jokingly went to the board president who was a 
lawyer and said she was going to bring a case against me, so when 
he called me, I said, "I do that because then we have twice the staff 
for the amount of money." It's just having that attitude. I'm not a 
huge detail person, so I need to have people around me to do that. I 
don't know if you're interviewing Emily Heilbrun , but she worked 
at Womenspace when I was there and Pearl Wolfe, who wasn't a 
lesbian, and other people who can lay things out and do it.  
Raiskin: It sounds like a lot of the women -run agencies often ran into 
trouble around lack of hierarchy or consensus decision-making, 
and it sounds like some of your management skills were well used 
at Womenspace and allowed you to grow that organization, but I'm 
wondering if you can shed some  light on that time, that political 
time of women-run organizations and how they function.  
Anderton:  Well, I think the hardest thing with an organization like 
Womenspace is that you want people who understand the issue, 
but you want to make sure that they're beyond the crisis stage, and 
I wasn't always good at that in terms of bringing people on who 
became clients almost because they weren't ready to spend all day 
every day thinking about this issue that they were closely involved 
in not that long ago. I think that I would say the main reason that I 
left was that I got tired of the personnel issues.   
 I could've done the domestic violence work longer, but the 
personnel issues of just trying to keep everybody going and not 
going into crisis is hard and a crisis agency, so yeah. It's also— how  
can I say this? When it's all women, sometimes the backbiting and 
all of that gets going, and you just want to say, "Stop it. Come on. 
We're here for the people we're serving and you don't need to be 
doing that with each other," and sometimes having to fire people 
because they couldn't stop doing that kind of thing.  
 The vast majority of people that I worked with there were really 
very functional and did a good job. It was just occasionally you 
would hire somebody that  we shouldn't have.  
Raiskin: How were decisions made there?  
Anderton:  It wasn't total consensus because nobody wanted to sit in meetings 
that long and we didn't have time, but within each of the programs, 
there was lots of discussion about decisions that were made, and it 
was pretty much agreed upon by people. One of the things that I 
learned early on by taking one of those personality test things was 
we had a staff person, we'd have staff meetings, and we'd be trying 
to make a decision and she never could,  and finally by taking this 
test, I realized that she was a person who needed time to think 
about it.  
 I finally realized I had to say, "Okay, this is the issue. Let's talk 
about it. Next week, we'll vote on it," and the problem went away 
because she couldn't go like that  [snaps fingers]. Then I do that and  
often I make the wrong decision, so I realize that it was good to 
have her to slow me down so that I wouldn't be pushing for 
something.  
Raiskin: Can you tell us about your work or participation with Mobility 
International USA?  
Anderton:  Oh, yeah I forgot about MIUSA. Yeah, we were volunteers for 
MIUSA in terms of being home stays, and Mobility International 
USA is an organization that was started in Eugene by Susan Sygall 
and somebody else who I never knew. It is for people with 
primarily physical disabilities to help them to be more powerful in 
the world, and it's international in the sense that they have 
international conferences of women and men from all over the 
world who are disabled so that they can go back to their countries 
and change the way disabilities are dealt with.  
 I got to be friends with Susan, and I had gone on a couple of trips to 
China before I met her, and then I met her and she said, "I think we 
should take a group to China." I said, "Good idea. Can you get the 
money?" She said, "Oh, yeah." She said, "But first, we need to go 
and set it all up," so we went to China, the two of us, and met with 
people there that she had contacted ahead of time who were in the 
disability movement and set it all up.  
 The fun part of that was that I would rent a bike, and Susan Sygall 
uses a wheelchair, but it's not electric, so it's a hand, and she has 
canes because she can walk short distances, so I would ride on the  
bike and she would hook the canes onto the back of the bike and 
we'd ride around the street, and in those days in China, if you go 
today, it's all cars, but in those days, it was all bikes, so it was fine 
to do that and there were few cars on the road, and we'd really 
have fun just going in and  out of different places until some police 
officer would see who was directing traffic and yell and blow his 
whistle and then she'd go up. We'd meet up again down the street. 
Then we took a group to China and it was— 
Raiskin: A group of how many people and  what were their disabilities?  
Anderton:  There were five in wheelchairs. There were maybe two blind 
people and a couple of deaf people, then me and Cindy Wynn 
[Cindy Lewis], who I think was another staff person at MIUSA, so 
it was a relatively small group. What was interesting actually when 
we were in Beijing is that there was an amazing amount of interest 
in the issue and it was because during the cultural revolution, Deng 
Xiaoping's son had been thrown out of a fifth-story window and 
become disabled, so he had an interest in it, so there were actually 
programs and some of them that we saw were not of the highest 
standard, but there was more going on than we expected to see and 
they really seemed to care.  
 Then another time I went to China on an international conference 
about domestic violence, and that was also really interesting. I 
remember in one of the sessions, one of the government people got 
up and she was saying— they were translating, of course— that 
this is not really a problem in China, and I looked around the table  
at the other women from China who were sitting there and they 
looked at me and they rolled their eyes.  
 There's the official line and then there's the truth, so then I got to 
talk to them about what the problems were. I went to three or four 
international conferences, and basically the issue is the same. It's 
like twenty-five percent  of women are in violent relationships at 
some point in their lives, and people want to say, "Oh, it's so much 
in Muslim culture. It's so much worse in Hispanic culture." No, it's 
the same. It doesn't matter. It's an issue everywhere.  
 Yeah, but being a home stay for Mobility International has been 
really instructive. We've had women from all over the world, 
Africa, and Asian, and mostly they help people in third-world 
countries, so that's who we're seeing.  
Raiskin: You've had people stay with you and Janet from other countries 
who have come here for leadership development?  
Anderton:  For a conference. Right, for leadership development, yeah. 
Actually, we have a relationship with a woman who's in Malawi, 
which is one of the poorest countries in the world, and we will 
occasionally, when she says they just can't feed my family, we'll 
send her money, and it's amazing. Here we can send $100 or $200 
and we're saving this woman's children's lives and it's not that big a 
deal for us. We might have to give up a few lattes. The world, and 
that's why I like it. It really gives me a true sense of what the world 
is about. How lucky I am.   
Long: In your time here in Eugene, did you ever experience any kind of 
discrimination because you were lesbian?  
Anderton:  I can't remember any time, no. No.  
Raiskin: How has it been with your family over the years?  
Anderton:  Oh, they're fine. Yeah, no, Janet is their favorite in-law. I have 
siblings. Both my parents are gone, but yeah, and my father really 
liked Janet and my mother had died before I got together with her, 
so she didn't know her, but she would've liked her, too.  
Raiskin: Do you have any thoughts about aging in Eugene as a lesbian?  
Anderton: Aging? Yeah. As a lesbian, I don't know if— I know that there are 
some groups who are getting together so that they're surrounded 
by lesbians, but I like having a wider array of people around me. 
We have quite a few friends who are men and that we really 
spending time with, and it's not an exclusive thing at all for us.  
Raiskin: How has your health care been in Eugene as a lesbian? Have you 
felt respect by doctors or have you ever had a problem?  
Anderton:  Well, I have to admit I've gone to lesbian doctors. 
Raiskin: Why? Why have you chosen lesbian doctors?  
Anderton:  I think just so that I don't have to deal with that, you know?  
Raiskin: Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Anderton:  Yeah.   
Raiskin: Deal with?  
Anderton:  It's such a personal relationship and just somebody who 
understands that whole thing so you don't have to be explaining 
anything that they wouldn't— I don't know. Yeah, I guess I do have 
a certain sense.  
Raiskin: Some people feel that way about assisted living or senior housing, 
have some trepidation about that as lesbians.  
Anderton:  Yeah, I'm not quite there yet, but it is a good point that, yeah, it 
could be uncomfortable if you had somebody who was 
uncomfortable with you and they were helping you bathe or 
whatever. Yeah.  
Raiskin: If you were to tell a young person any advice about how to live 
their life now that you're where you are and having gone through 
the experiences that you've had, is there in particular you would 
tell them?  
Anderton:  Well, I would tell them if they think that they're gay or lesbian  to 
not be afraid of it and to try to figure it out as best they can. I think 
the thing that's changed the most in my lifetime is that you were 
either straight or gay, straight or lesbian, and that was your choice 
back in the day, but now we really see that it's on a continuum. 
Some people are bisexual, so for them to try to figure out where are 
they on that spectrum and how do they want to lead their lives in 
terms of their relationships and are they most comfortable as a 
lesbian just with woman or would they be willing or wanting to try  
the other, so to not make it so either/or was it was for us that you 
were or you weren't. What else? Yeah. Just not to be afraid of it. I 
don't think it is as scary today as it was.  
Raiskin: Did you feel afraid when you were younger?  
Anderton:  Well, obviously I tried to prove that I was straight, so yeah. There 
was some part of me that wanted to fit in. Yeah. If somebody who 
was knowledgeable about these things had taken me aside then 
and tried to talk to me about it, they might've been successful in 
convincing me that I really didn't need to do that, that I could be 
who I was.  
Raiskin: In your work or activities, have you had contact with young 
people, let's say, in the last ten years working with them or 
socializing?  
Anderton: Not a lot, no.  
Raiskin: There seems to be a division right now.  
Anderton:  Yeah, that's true, isn't it? Yeah. Yeah, that's interesting, but no, I 
haven't.  
Raiskin: Seems to be common.  
Anderton:  That's interesting. Huh, I should probably try to bridge that gap. I 
don't know. Maybe they don't want to hang out with us. I can't 
imagine why not.  
Long: Is there anything we didn't ask you that you wanted to talk about?   
Anderton:  I don't think so. I think you've covered most of it. Yeah. Thank you.  
Raiskin: Yeah, thank you so much.  
Long: Thank you very much.  
Raiskin: It was so nice to hear about your life.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  
 
 