 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Aggie Agapito  on September 5, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording 
studio and the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts  in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin at the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Aggie, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the University to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed contribute.  
Agapito:  I do.   
Long:  Thank you. Let's just begin with the basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born and something about your 
early background?  
Agapito:  I was born in Torrance, California, which is near Los Angeles, and 
in 1950. I came from Italian, English, Irish, Welsh, Scottish family, 
Italian on one side and the other side a mixture. And we're a really 
close family. Both sides of my family lived in the same city and we 
were always together. We did a lot of— Every Sunday we would 
go to the Italian aunt's house and have— I'd watch the aunts 
making pasta in the kitchen and just have such great memories of 
all my family. And my grandmother on my mother's side would 
take care of my brother and I a lot. And anyway, family was really 
close and really fun growing up.  
Long:  And you had a brother?  
Agapito:  Had a brother. He's two years younger, almost two years younger, 
named Vince. And we were really close. We are really close.  
Raiskin:  And did you have cousins? A group of cousins?  
Agapito:  A lot of cousins. There were, I think, thirteen of us. And so we 
were— All the cousins were very close and we played together a 
lot and all holidays and— We didn't all go to the same school, so 
we didn't see each other. Torrance was about a hundred thousand 
people type of city. So we would see cousins and aunts and uncles 
and grandparents on weekends.   
Raiskin:  Were you a religious family?  
Agapito:  Well, a little bit. I mean, my parents— my father was Catholic, 
Italian Catholic, and my mother was Protestant. So when they got 
together they decided to be Episcopal. And I remember going to 
church and not being very interested, but I liked the pretty stained 
glass windows. And some of the things that happened in the 
church were fascinating to me, just how old and ornate everything 
was. But at— and I was in the choir, which I thought was really 
fun. I liked having a little outfit on the little white thing with a 
black, I think it was white color with black ruffling thing. Anyway, 
but at age fourteen, I remember going into my mom and dad's 
bedroom one morning. It was Sunday morning and I said, "I really 
don't want to go to church anymore." They said, "Okay." And that 
was sort of the end of that. I didn't follow it anymore and didn't 
want to pursue the religious part of it anymore.  
Raiskin:  And were they strong believers?  
Agapito:  I'd say yes. But around the time that I decided to not go to church 
anymore, I saw  them slacking on not going. I'd say not that any 
type of religious values outside of the church, I never thought 
about church or anything that had to do with religion. So I'd say 
that they weren't, maybe they weren't that strong religious 
followers.  
Raiskin:  What were you like as a kid?   
Agapito:  I was a tomboy. My mother would— I had long curly hair, and my 
mother would put it in a ponytail. And it was a ponytail, I was 
really into horses and I— she’d  make me wear a dress all day on 
Sunday and I cried all day. I hated it so much. And I couldn't wait 
to get into my jeans and my little canvas shoes  with the rubber end 
on it. And it was just— that was the outfit. I mean she would 
even— my jeans would get worn out and she'd iron a patch on 
them. And the shoes would get worn out, and I didn't want 
anything to get replaced with anything new. I just loved all my old 
clothes.  
 I really lived in a wonderful fantasy world. I mean we played 
outside from the moment we woke up to the time she called for 
dinner. And it was just a life of— For children then was you just 
went and played at all the neighbor's houses or they'd come to your 
house and play, but you didn't really check in with your parents. 
You just played and ran kind of wild on the block. And I guess in 
1950, because we were all Baby Boomers, there were a lot of 
children. So we had big groups of kids and we'd just play. We'd 
play army. We'd play all kinds of— we’d  walk on the concrete 
walls that would go down the backyards, and we'd walk along 
them all the way to the end of the street. And we'd— there  were 
just so many wild things to do and there was a  lot of freedom as a 
child. And then you'd hear that evening call. All the mothers would 
be out on the streets calling for their kids to come in, and you'd 
reluctantly go home.   
Long:  Did you have any close friends when you were growing up, in 
school maybe?  
Agapito:  I did. I had my best friend Barb and she lived a block down. And 
then I had my best friend Traci, and she lived on my street just 
about eight houses down. And yeah, we were best buddies, and we 
did all those things I named, all together, all the time.  
Raiskin:  And what grade— what  was that when you were running around 
like that?  
Agapito:  It was elementary school, probably first grade through fifth grade 
I'd say at least. And toys were not really that much of a thing. We 
had dogs and we'd put them  on a leash. And we'd go to the top of 
our hill and we'd put our roller skates on and then we'd whack the 
back of the dog's back with the leash and GO. And then we'd kneel 
down and we'd roll down the hills with our dogs, like racing, like a 
chariot or something, I don't know. But those are our activities.  
 And we— Also, I was walking past a magnolia tree this morning. 
And I saw all these little, little things that come off the magnolia 
flower and it's the stem  and it drops off after the flower finishes. 
And those were my little people. So there'd be little small ones for 
the children and bigger ones for the adults. And I would play with 
those in my garden. And there was little mounds of baby tears, 
because it was California and lots of things grew down there, kind 
of more tropical.   
 And I would make little houses, like dig into the baby tears and 
make my little people go in there. And I just remember— and I was 
very curious too about— I ate a lot of different things that grew in 
the neighborhoods. So little— I experimented with rosebuds and 
ice plant and these little berries that grew on this tree next to my 
house that tasted like little apples and I never poisoned myself. I 
don't know how I never did, but I was—I mean I ate the grass like I 
was a cow, because I loved watching how cows ate. I mean I just 
experimented.  
 Oh, and I had an imaginary horse that was tied up to the mailbox. 
And I'd come out of the house and I'd take the reins off and then I'd 
leap onto the horse. And I galloped to school, gallop down the 
street. And you know, just that vivid imagination. I don't know. It 
was fascinating to me. And anyway, that was— I always wanted to 
be my cat George. He'd be laying there in the sun and I'd go, "Oh, 
George. If only I could be you and you could be me." Because I 
don't think— I didn't like school very much. It was a little more 
difficult for me to learn to read and write and do math, and I didn't 
like it. I had to wear a dress to school and I really didn't like that. So 
I really wanted to be my cat so bad. Anyway, there's my childhood.  
Raiskin:  Did things change significantly in middle school or high school for 
you?  
Agapito:  Oh, not so much. Probably at about age fifteen, I— we had grade 
school from kindergarten to eighth grade, all in the same school 
and that was Meadow Park Elementary. And then you'd go to high  
school in eighth grade and that was South Torrance High. And my 
mother made all my clothes, almost all of them. I'd get to pick one 
dress out at Sears, but mostly my mother made my skirts and 
dresses. And high school was— I was kind of leaning towards the 
bad girl side. I don't know exactly what that draw was, but it 
might've been because I wasn't really good at— I didn't feel very 
smart, and school was boring. And I think that I— so I leaned 
towards hanging out with the girls that were having more fun.  
 And I ditched a few classes and then I think my senior year— that 
was the last year girls were wearing skirts and dresses to school, 
and I started being a hippie. And I loved that because  it was more 
like my childhood. It was a freeing of— you didn't wear a bra. You 
didn't have to, so I didn't. And loose fitting clothing, and it just 
was— I had still had— Well, I think I'd cut my hair by then and 
stopped wearing makeup. And I loved being a hippie,  and then the 
protests of the Vietnam War started happening.  
 I had— Some of the young men that I went to school with had gone 
off to fight in the war, and two of my close friends were killed in 
our group of young people, young men and women. And after they 
were killed and we mourned their loss that senior year, something 
changed in me. And I think I loved— well, being a hippie was what 
I needed to do. It felt like a type of protest that I— I don't know 
exactly what I want to say about that, but it just was  a part of what 
was going on there. Just protesting the bigger picture of the war 
and protesting the life that maybe my parents wanted for me,  
which was being a secretary or a wife. And that was— nothing  
more was— not even talking about college. There was just a life 
of— and so I did get married. I got married young at eighteen  
and— 
Raiskin:  Had you been dating this boy?  
Agapito:  Yeah, Yeah, a little bit of dating in senior year in high school. And 
we got married pretty much after we graduated. And well, that 
didn't work out too well, because I was— Oh, gosh. Do we tell 
about this? So he started selling pot and I worked full time. He 
didn't. He worked at McDonnell Douglas Aircraft. That was the big 
thing in Torrance. And he got laid off and he started selling pot, 
marijuana. And I worked full time in a ski shop in a retail position. 
And I came home one night. I was watching Dr. Welby, M.D.  I 
remember it very well, sitting on my couch.  
 And all of a sudden there was a knock at the door and I opened it 
and ten plain-clothed cops came in and raided our house and 
handcuffed me, handcuffed him. And then proceeded to just tear 
our house apart, looking for drugs. And I remember we had a 
poster on the wall of the Statue of Liberty being raped by a police 
officer or FBI or something. And they ripped it off the wall and 
went  “sheh, sheh, shew” [gestures ripping].  And then— so I was 
down on my knees handcuffed and I said, "Can I at least put some 
shoes on?" And they said, "All right," reluctantly. And then they 
took me to jail, took us both to jail. And my best friend Barbara, 
who was my childhood friend, same Barb.   
 And that was just like the beginning of— I began— I got out of jail 
after five days. And then I think I was arrested for possession of 
dangerous drugs and then convicted on a misdemeanor. And that 
was a strange turn in my life. And I just— I remember saying to my 
mother as she saw me— my mother and father looking at me from 
the other side of the jail window, and I said, "Mom, it's okay. 
Marijuana will be legal someday. There's nothing wrong with it." 
And this would've been what year? About 1969, I'd say. Yeah, 1969. 
So anyway, that was a big turning point. And I think that after that 
I, I don't know, I was a protester. I was at— I was living an 
alternative lifestyle and I loved it and got out of jail. Only was 
married for about eighteen  months.  
 And then— I always worked full time though. And in fact when I 
got out of jail, I came back to work and my boss was a little mad at 
me. She says, "Where have you been?" I said, "In jail. I can't believe 
no one called you and told you." She's, "Get in here. We need you." 
And I just went right back to work. Work was always such a strong 
ethic. My work ethic was always really important. I never— I was a 
hippie, but family taught me really work and earn a living.  
 And even after that first short marriage, I never went back to my 
parents' home. I mean, I love them, but I was independent. At 
eighteen, nineteen, I was an adult. I felt it, and whether I knew very 
much. I thought I did. And I always had my own apartment. But I 
lived at the beach then with a friend. I think we rented a little 
cottage just the other side of the highway. And then there was the  
sand and the ocean, you could see it. And we both lived there, a 
woman friend and I, $100 a month and— 
Raiskin:  Why did you get divorced?  
Agapito:  You know, I fell out of love for him and didn't feel— something  
changed. The fact that I went to jail and the fact that I became a 
hippie kind of during the time we were married. I remember the 
transition of clothing, of hair style, of no makeup, and we sort of 
had different views. And I decided that the being jailed was pretty 
traumatic. And I think he didn't become a hippie with me. And the 
hippie part was the change of lifestyle that we both were going in 
different directions. So I believe that— 
Raiskin:  Were you mad at him for putting you in that position?  
Agapito: No. No, I didn't feel bad about it. I just thought, "Oh, well." I had 
kind of an attitude of the authorities are wrong and we're right. 
And it's just a matter of time before we prove that there's nothing 
wrong with smoking marijuana. But I did start smoking when I 
was fifteen, and then I stopped smoking when I was thirty, 
marijuana, I have to clarify. I never smoked cigarettes. It was a fun 
time in my life.  
Raiskin:  You moved to the beach with— 
Agapito:  Moved to the beach, decided to go to college. I'd never been to 
college. So started going to the community college, taking one class 
at a time, history or ceramics or it'd just be one class that I'd take  
while I worked full time. And just enjoyed exploring college and 
what I was learning. I went to Los Angeles City College and met 
some new people in that circle of college friends and met a man 
that— he was also hippie. He worked at the ski shop where I 
worked, and we became partners and lived  together for seven 
years. He was a photographer and worked in Hollywood. And so 
together we moved to Hollywood.  
 I was a messenger for a— see, what do they call it? A messenger 
company in Hollywood. I would take a script or something 
important from the agency to the actor's home. And so I'd met a lot 
of movie stars.  I knocked on a lot of movie stars doors and— 
Raiskin:  Like who?  
Agapito:  Dolly Parton. Oh, my gosh. Cary Grant. Raquel Welch. I remember 
her very well.  
Long:  What do you remember about her?  
Agapito:  She had on her pants suit when she opened her door. Oh, Dolly 
Parton was the most exciting. I went to some hotel in Hollywood. 
They said, "You're going to make a delivery." And they didn't ever 
tell you where you're going. I got to the door and Dolly Parton 
opened it. It was her hotel room, and she gave me a  hug like this  
[gestures]. And I remember looking down at her breasts and they 
were huge. And I was not a lesbian, but I was getting close to being 
it, and she was short. And she went, "I thought you were going to 
be an old boy." And she hugged me, and I was in rain boots and a  
sweatshirt. And I just remember smiling ear to ear. And so she 
signed for the package. I left.  
 And I remember going to the pay phone that was down the hall, 
calling my mother right away. And a phone call is ten cents. You 
put it in  the slot. And I go, "Mom, you're not going to believe. I just 
went to Dolly Parton's room." And then I remember seeing the 
maid who was cleaning rooms. We both looked at each other. And 
we went— because she knew Dolly Parton was there too.  
 And another delivery was to some agent and he had a small lion, a 
baby lion in his backyard. And I remember trying to figure out how 
to get down to the house, because I could see it down there. So I 
opened the gate and then I see out of the corner of my eye, a small 
lion, not very big, coming towards me. And then it jumped up on 
me and put its paws like this  [gestures]. And I went— And then I 
hear, "It's okay. He won't hurt you." And I went, "Okay." And then 
the baby got down and I went down the stairs and— I used to have 
a list of all the movies star's homes I went to. Honestly, it was a 
fascinating experience, but we don't need to talk about that 
anymore.  
 And then so, I was now in the relationship, my second male 
relationship with a man. And we got married and he was  Jewish 
and I had all Jewish friends. My best friends were Lauren and Jules. 
They were our neighbors, our hippy neighbors. And so the four of 
us bought a house together in Silver Lake in Los Angeles. And we 
lived in a duplex. It was a— I remember we bought  it for about a  
hundred thousand dollars, ninety-nine thousand. And we split that 
and it was a house that was being foreclosed on.  
 And then I learned about the woman, Mamie Sevard  who lived 
there. She died in the house and I don't know, I've always felt very 
close to her and loved looking, finding old things in the basement 
that belonged to her and her family from the early days. And her 
husband had worked for Disney and anyway, fascinating.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Agapito:  Nineteen seventy. And then in 1970, I went to Europe with a friend. 
I traveled for a month and a half with my friend Debbie and I 
worked also at a ski  shop. I worked at the ski shop  for a long time. I 
was the one of the buyers for the clothing, the women's clothing. 
And so Debbie and I went to Europe, we traveled. I got married to 
Pepe  who was Jewish. We had a really fun— He had really rich 
parents that lived in Indiana, and I loved his mother. She was an 
artist. I loved my first husband's mother. She was French, and I just 
had the most wonderful times with the mothers of my husbands. 
They were just the sweetest, wonderful  women and taught me so 
much.  
 And then I came back from Europe. I decided to go visit my friend 
Barb, who is now living in Hawaii and I had my last messenger 
run. So I was also being a messenger. And was in a town north of 
Los Angeles along the beach and  for some reason— I'm not sure 
I'm remembering now, I wanted to go to a gay bar. And I walked  
in, and I realized that it's all women and nobody knows that I'm 
straight. This is the most incredible experience. So I remember my 
husband's out of town, and I decided to just go to this bar after my 
last run. And a woman— I hadn't been there very long, and I kind 
of was looking around trying to decide just to look cool and 
pretend like I knew what I was doing.  
 And a woman said, "Hey, you're pretty cute. Can I buy you a 
drink?" And I went, "Sure." And so that was that. She bought me a 
drink. I went home with her. We had great sex. And I just said, 
"Wow, what have I been missing?" I remember saying to my 
husband shortly after that that I didn't want to be married 
anymore. It was time to be gay.  
Raiskin:  And so what was the draw of being gay?  
Agapito:  I just remember— I don't know if I can remember it as much as feel 
it. I just remember the feeling of this seems so natural. This seems 
exactly what I want to do. And it wasn't, this is what I wanted my 
whole life. I enjoyed sex with men, but I enjoyed sex with women 
more. And there was a sensuality of closeness that I didn't 
experience with men.  
Raiskin:  Had you thought about— had you been attracted to women 
before?   
Agapito:  No, no. Other than that being a tomboy. I did not like dressing up, 
but I can't really equate that to being, feeling that I liked women 
more than men. It just was— when  it finally happened, it felt  
completely natural. And I never thought anything was wrong with 
it. Because I grew up in an environment of love the one you're with, 
being a hippie, free love. And it really— so that flowed into my 
experience, my sexual experience with women over men. It didn't 
really matter to, "Oh, I like women better." It just was, "I get to 
choose and I choose women." And I never had one single moment 
of guilt. It just was matter of fact. And there was no turning back. It 
was— there was no turning back. I was real clear that the moment 
that I had that physical relationship with a woman, I was finished 
with men. And— 
Long:  Did she know that was your first time sleeping with a woman?  
Agapito:  Yeah. She knew.  
Long:  Did you ever see her again?  
Agapito:  No, she didn't want anything to do with me, because I was 
married. And I said, "Fine, I'll go to the bar again and meet 
someone else," which I did. And then that woman became my 
partner for about three years. That was Paula.  Paula.  
Raiskin:  How did the divorce go?  
Agapito:  It was fine. It was amicable. The worst part was writing the letter to 
his mother who I loved dearly, and we stayed friends for quite a 
while. Yeah, everything was equal. He came from a rich, old Jewish 
family, and he had given me this eight carat diamond ring. The size 
of the diamond, I could still see it. It was humongous, and the thing  
couldn't even be worn. It had to be kept in a safe deposit box. And I 
remember saying to him, "This was your great-grandmother's. You 
take that back. We'll split this. Oh, how about this couch? We'll, I'll 
take this section. You take that one." We were fine about it. We 
went our own ways.  
Raiskin: And so which way did you go? What happened after that?  
Agapito:  I moved to Long Beach, California. There was a big lesbian 
community there, and I kept my messenger job and my ski shop 
job, mountaineering. It was a ski shop mountaineering place in 
West Los Angeles and let's see, what did I do next? Just lived in 
Long Beach, California. There was a bar there. Oh, that first bar that 
I came out in was called Que Sera, Sera, and that  was in Los 
Angeles I believe. And then the bar, I don't remember the name of 
the one in Long Beach, but there was a great lesbian bar in Long 
Beach, and I just spent time in that town being part of the larger 
lesbian community.  
 We formed a lesbian group called, oh shoot. I remember 
interestingly enough, we didn't want to use the word lesbian. We 
were concerned about that. So we called ourselves the women's, I 
can't remember it now, but I do remember that somebody had the 
wherewithal that every time we, once a month, once every six 
months, all of the information from our political group went to the 
lesbian archives in Washington, D.C., and that was in the early 
seventies.   
 I'm trying to remember what we actually did, but I think we put on 
concerts, we brought different women to Long Beach, different 
women, lesbian musicians to Long Beach. And we would have 
fundraisers. I wish I could remember what we were raising funds 
for, but anyway, it was a fun early political lesbian group that I was 
part of. The Women's Union, that's what it was called, The 
Women's Union. And let's see, that was Long Beach.  
Raiskin: How old are you in Long Beach?  
Agapito:  By this time I'm thirty, and I came out at age thirty. So that was my 
coming out year.  
Long:  What do you mean by that?  
Agapito:  Well, went from straight to lesbian.  
Long:  But did you tell your parents?  
Agapito:  Yes, I told my parents. And, again, told them in the most proudest 
way. I was so excited about becoming a lesbian, and my parents 
were just sweet. They didn't  understand it really, but we were a 
really close family, so there was no love loss. It was just, “We 
support you.” And I'm sure behind the scenes, my mother was 
sobbing, but they always supported me, and they were always 
sweet and loving.  
 So yeah, age thirty, 1970, that's when I came out as a lesbian. And I 
remember early times of stopping racist comments and jokes. I was 
living in Los Angeles, and I had some black friends, and there was  
an early understanding for me of racism. And I remember seeing 
someone had written on a concrete wall “Black is beautiful.” And I 
loved that statement. I just went, "Ah. Oh my gosh, there's a new 
awakening going on in our country and this is so wonderful."  
 And Pepe and I, that was my husband, when we were hippies, we 
did have a lot of black friends, because we lived in Hollywood, and 
life was different there. It was a very strong mixture of cultures and 
lifestyles, and everyone accepted everybody. Really it was a great 
new teaching time for me to accept everyone who they were and no 
matter what they believed and how they lived their life. It was 
really fun.  
 Anyway, then back to Long Beach. Off I went. Then I met my 
friends, Janice and Shelly and with my girlfriend Paula, we went to 
my first feminist week, it was called Califia. And that was my first 
experience at learning about all the “-isms.” It was a fascinating 
time period, and there were weekend gatherings for Califia, maybe 
every May and then one summer a week gathering for Califia. And 
it was for all women, but mostly lesbians went. And it was a really 
exciting — I'm repeating myself, but political time. And I didn't 
really know much about “-isms.” It was a wonderful experience.  
And then— 
Raiskin: What did the workshops focus on? What kind of “-isms?” 
Agapito:  Fat oppression, classism, a really new understanding of classism 
and the type of family that I grew up in. My father was a  
firefighter. And so understanding privileges of what some women 
grew up with and what some women didn't have when they were 
growing up. And then there were wild times. There was always 
lots of fun sexual escapades. I don't know. Califia was a very 
freeing experience. I guess I'll just say that. And a lot of the women 
that I met there I'm still friends with today. In fact, one of the 
women, Irene Weiss, she just died, well, she died two years ago. 
She was ninety-two when she died, and I'm sixty-seven, so I realize, 
I don't really remember that women were that much older than me 
when I was there. But there was a real age range and a wonderful 
learning from older women and their struggles and what it was like 
for them to be lesbians in the ‘30s and ’40s. And they would show 
pictures of them, and that they were mostly in the military and 
some of the clothing that they wore in those time periods.  
 Anyway, very wonderful learning experience learning about older 
lesbians that I didn't know anything about. And about that time 
Janice and I and Shelly decided we were going to go to Oregon 
because there was an Ovular taking place, and we didn't know 
much about it, but we were three photographers and we wanted to 
go. So we flew— 
Long:  Can you explain what “Ovular” was?  
Agapito:  Ovular it was, it had another meaning. Ovular meant, I don't 
remember. Linda, help me.   
Long:  They used the term Ovular. They were a series of photography 
workshops for women, and they use the word ovular instead of 
seminar, because seminar comes from the word semen— 
Agapito:  Okay, thank you.  
Long:  —and ovular from ovary.  
Agapito:  Yeah, okay, ovular from ovaries. Thank you. I didn't remember 
that. I just thought it was wonderful that they used a different 
name. And so we went for a week and lived at Ruth and Jean 
Mountaingrove's home in southern Oregon. Sunny— 
Long:  Rootworks.  
Agapito: Rootworks in Sunny— 
Long:  Kings.  
Agapito:  Sunnyside, sunny something.  
Long:  Well— 
Agapito:  Sunny Valley?  
Long:  Near Sunny Valley.  
Agapito:  Yeah, okay. So we spent a week, and that was a fascinating 
experience as well because Ruth and Jean didn't really  believe in a 
lot of things like running water and electricity and refrigeration 
and washing clothes. It was a very simple way of living, and we all 
came from the city. And so the first thing was, okay, open the ice  
chest and get out the peanut butter and jelly and make a sandwich 
and use a candle for electricity. And if you need to bathe, go down 
to the stream and fill gallon water jugs with water, and let them sit 
in the sun if you wanted it to be a hot bath or just pour cold water 
over yourself to wash with. 
 And Janice, Shelly and I thought this was the funniest thing we'd 
ever experienced. Like, "What are we doing?" And sleeping in 
tents, which was fine, but I remember getting a tick in my arm pit 
and I went, "What is this?" And I went, "Ahhhhh!!!!," running, 
screaming from the tent. And I went, "Somebody, get it out!" Oh, 
and you had to pee on the ground, and there was an outhouse up 
the hill, but it was a two holer. So it meant someone had to sit next 
to you, and I remember feeling mortified, and I said, "Janice, please, 
please come sit next to me. I don't want a stranger coming up the 
hill and sitting down next to me."  
 And Janice dropped her flashlight down the toilet. And then 
forevermore we'd look down and see a light way down. And we 
didn't want to  look down, but then we'd see the light and go, "Oh, 
eew!" Anyway, just the lifestyle of Ruth and Jean Mountaingrove 
made us laugh really hard. But little did I know I'd be living the 
same lifestyle at WomanShare  a year later.  
 So, back up a minute. On the  last day at the Ovular, we heard that 
WomanShare, the famous WomanShare, which I had bought a 
book— I'm swiveling in my chair, so sorry. There was a bookstore 
in Pasadena, the only woman's bookstore that was available in Los  
Angeles that I knew of. And I went to the bookstore, again a very 
exciting time to walk into a women's bookstore, and I was perusing 
the shelves and there was this book called WomanShare. And it 
looked really interesting. And I bought it, and I remember going 
home and reading it cover to cover, fascinated by it.  
 And then when we were at the Ovular at the end of the week, they 
said, "And you're going to have a show, a showing of your work." 
And we printed our black and white images, and we each had a 
series on the wall and the women from WomanShare  and Tee 
Corinne, were going to come view our work. And I went, "Ah, Oh 
no, this sounds really nerve wracking. I can't believe it," because we 
really looked up to these women that we'd heard about.  
 So I see first Tee Corinne in a big caftan, a  flowing caftan, walking 
up the road and the caftan swaying. And everyone, "That's Tee 
Corinne." And then the next group was  Billie and Shannon and 
Bridget  from WomanShare. And again, our hearts thumped. We 
were nervous, and they didn't say anything to us,  but they just 
walked into— I think Natalie Barney was where our photographs 
were displayed.  
Long:  That was the barn.  
Agapito:  The barn, Natalie Barney at Rootworks, and I remember Tee 
Corinne looking at Billie, no words were being spoken, they just 
silently walked by. And I don't know what we thought, we were 
really nervous. And very casually we introduced ourselves to each  
other, and I think we sat around and there was a little critique of 
our work. I don't remember what was said, and then they left.  
 And  I think Janice was the one who had the nerve to say to Billie  
and Shannon and Bridgette if we could come visit as we were 
leaving. And they said, "Okay, sure. Come give a visit." I don't 
remember exactly how, but I remember Ruth had this big old truck, 
and we got in the back, and it rumbled down the road. She was 
taking us to the airport. And— 
Long:  Was that in Medford? The airport in Medford?  
Agapito:  The Medford airport. Oh no, I think this is what we did. Ruth drove 
us down to her little town, which was in Sunny Valley I think. And 
there's a small store there, and Ruth and Jean had made some 
pretty strict rules. I might be making this part up, but I think you 
couldn't eat candy. So, we got to the little market, and I remember 
we bought some candy. We were really excited to finally be able to 
have some candy. And that was as far as Ruth could give us a ride.  
 So we had to hitchhike to the airport, but we decided to hitchhike 
to WomanShare  if I remember this right. And we finally visited 
WomanShare. It was really fun. We were there an hour, and again 
it was the experience of women had their shirts off and were naked, 
and we just thought that was the coolest thing. And they said, 
"Come back sometime." They encouraged us to come live there.  
 And I was happily in my relationship with Paula.  Janice  said, "I am 
going to come live here, and I'll be back in November." And it was  
probably summertime that the Ovular had happened. And so I 
remember helping  Janice  moved back, and I helped her pack her 
car. She had a little Volkswagen. We stopped in San Francisco to 
visit Shelly. We kept coming up and driving up, and then we drove 
with her little Volkswagen Bug down the road, up the road to 
WomanShare, and we unpacked her.  
 And everyone was really sweet to me and they said, "Aggie, you 
got to—" Oh, I changed my name at that point. As we went over 
the Oregon border, I said “I'm choosing the name Aggie.” And 
Janice said, “And I'm not going to eat Cracker Jacks anymore.” And 
she threw her Cracker Jacks out the window as we went over the 
Oregon border, and I sort of ceremoniously threw out the name 
Deb out the window, because my name was Debi. And so we were 
excited, here we are, it's November. Everyone said, "Come, back." 
And I said, "Oh no. I'm happily in my relationship with Paula."  
 I get home, and Paula said, "I don't love you anymore, and I found 
a new lover." And I remember sobbing and then going, “Well what 
do I have to lose? I think I'll move to a WomanShare.” I called them 
up and said, "I think I do want to move." And so it was January 2, 
1985. Me and my yellow pickup truck with everything I owned in 
the back, moved to WomanShare, and that was the beginning of a 
really wonderful new chapter in my life. I lived at WomanShare  for 
three years. And how are we doing?  
Long:  Yeah.   
Agapito:  Are we good on time?  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], yeah. It's 10:39. Would you mind going 
back to the  Ovulars and describing what it was like to do 
photography at Rootworks where there's no electricity, no running 
water?  
Agapito:  That was crazy. Ruth made it seem so simple, and that told me 
what a skilled photographer she was. And she had this amazing 
setup. So she had a darkroom. She had a holding tank somewhere 
outdoors that was lined with plastic, and you would dump all the 
old chemicals  into this holding tank. And then they would, I guess 
dry up in the sun. And then I'm not sure what she would do with 
them.  
Long:  And this was the time before digital photography. So it was a wet 
processing system. So you process the film— 
Agapito:  Most of  us had experience with developing our own film and then 
processing the negatives and then going into the different water 
baths and chemical baths to make a print. Ruth had a tiny little 
dark room set up. The tiniest, only one person could fit in at a time, 
and you had to be really efficient. And you'd go into it and move 
around into the different sections until you had your finished print. 
And then what else? Anyway, you'd come out, and she had a really 
beautiful old camera. I want  to call it an 8 X 10.  I don't know what it 
was, but it was a wooden camera with the front that stretched out,  
and she took a lot of photographs of us with that or of things and 
people and individuals.  
 She did teach us a lot of wonderful things, but I think the 
inspiration of living in that environment for a week, and just our 
imagination just ran wild. It was really, really fun. Learning how to 
take photographs of people and things and use lighting in ways 
that I'd never used before. I think some of my most beautiful 
photography came out of that, and I never did do anything like that 
again. I did take some classes at Long Beach Community College. 
Nope, yeah, Long Beach Community College in photography. But I 
moved into colored photography. And— 
Long: Because you were only doing  black and white at— 
Agapito:  I was only doing black and white.  
Long: And how did Ruth power the enlarger? 
Agapito:  Oh, I think she had a bunch of batteries, and they were lined up car 
batteries, and I wasn't very interested in it, but I do remember how 
innovative she was. Yeah, car batteries all lined up, and it must've 
been a solar collector of some sort. That's how she powered it, 
because they didn't have any electricity there besides for the 
darkroom.  
Long: And how many women were at your workshop?  
Agapito: Well, I'm going to guess about  nine to eleven  or so. We were really 
close. We all made great friends with each other, and I'm not  
friends with any of the women anymore, but I know Janice and  
Shelly still are in somewhat contact with some of the women. They 
know where they are.  
Raiskin: So you were there in the summer and you came back in the winter? 
What was that like?  
Agapito:  Coming back to WomanShare? 
Raiskin: In the winter.  
Agapito:  Freezing, freezing cold. I have never been so cold in my entire life, 
because you go from a naturally heated home where you switch the 
thermostat on, to "Okay, here's your tin lizzie” was what my stove 
was called, because I lived in the hexagon was the name of the 
cabin at WomanShare  that I lived in, and some of the stoves were 
cast iron, but the stove in my cabin was made out of tin. And it was 
like an oval shape, and they taught me how to build a fire. But it's 
one thing to build a fire, and it's another thing to keep it going all 
night.  
 So it would kind of glow red, a deep red color. And I am so glad I 
never burned the cabin down, because I had a candle or oil lamp, 
both. And then the tin lizzie was trying to keep me warm, but there 
was a lot of things I didn't understand. Like I guess you have to 
wear socks at night and, "Oh, I guess I need to wear a hat, and 
here's my sleeping bag, and how do I stay warm? I guess I better 
wear long underwear. That'd be good." And then getting into the 
sleeping bag and pulling it up over my face, because my fire went  
out and, "Oh no, I have to get up and pee. This is really a really 
hard thing to do. Do I go out the door and pee on the ground or do 
I pee in my little yogurt, Nancy's Yogurt container?" 
 And anyway, there was basic, basic living skills  that you had to 
quickly learn and not run home to mommy. I really thought it's a 
good thing that I'm really strong and independent, because I 
probably felt like calling my mom and saying this is too hard, but 
luckily I had Janice there. And— 
Raiskin:  Where did Janice live at WomanShare? 
Agapito:  Well, Janice lived in one of the other cabins. The Yarrow,  maybe. I 
can't remember which cabin Janice lived in. Actually the very first 
cabin I lived in was over at Fish Pond, and I had brought my rabbit 
and my chicken with me. And it was a tiny, tiny one room cabin 
upstairs, and I reluctantly took my chicken, Mimi, to the chicken 
coop. There was a cabin called the Chicken Coop, which I lived, in, 
but there was an actual chicken coop for the chickens. And I loved 
the chickens a lot. I took my chicken, Mimi. Put her in in January, 
and she immediately got pneumonia, and the other chickens 
pecked at her.  
 So I had to give her antibiotics on a piece of bread, but she came 
through it. She survived, and she became one of the chickens in the 
chicken coop. And then my rabbit, Bun, was a big rabbit, and I kept 
him in a little, little, little cage inside my little one room cabin.   
 Anyway, I had my pets with me. And yeah, it was an amazing 
experience. And learning how to live with a collective of women 
and trudge through the snow to a morning collective meeting or 
evening collective meeting and then being happy that summer had 
come, because then you could run around with no clothes on if you 
wanted. And the food was delicious. There were at least seven of us 
living there. So that was one person for every night of the week. 
And so you only had to cook and clean up one night of the week, 
and the rest of the time you could do whatever you wanted.  
 It was so much fun. You would garden, or read, work on art 
projects, work on photography, sit in other people's cabins, 
enjoying talking, work on different chores that needed to be done, 
but you'd work in groups. We'd have to go out and cut wood. 
Somebody was always good at knowing how to fell a tree. And so 
then you'd chop the tree. Someone knew how to hook up the tree to 
big chains and fell the tree, and then a gang of women would be 
with chainsaws, and you'd be sawing big logs. And then you'd haul 
them into a back of the truck, and then haul them up to the 
woodshed, and take your turn chopping wood into pieces and 
hauling that in a wheelbarrow up to the housing.  
Agapito:  Hauling that in a wheelbarrow up to the house and starting the 
stoves. And luckily we had electricity for the stove. I was happy 
about that. But, I believe that was the only electrical.  
Long:  Was that at the main house?   
Agapito:  At the main house.  
Long:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. Could you tell us about what the philosophy 
of living was at WomanShare? It was a collective. So, women could 
come and live there in exchange for work? Can you explain that?  
Agapito:  Well, it seemed like in the early days when I moved there, they 
would just— well I remember I was at WomanShare  when they 
decided if I could live there or not. I guess I was visiting and they 
said, "Yeah, you can. The collective met, and we've decided you 
could live there." And I remember being very happy. Then when I 
lived there, women would just come up the road. They would hear 
about us from different ways. I believe women read the book or 
they'd— I don't really remember the ways that they'd hear about 
WomanShare. But all over the world, women would come from. 
And a lot of Swiss women, a lot of German women, Italian women, 
French, a lot of women from the U.S. And I remember Janice was in 
charge of correspondence. So she was the one who would be the 
one who would say, "Yes, come visit." And it was— 
Raiskin: And this is through mail?  
Agapito:  —through mail. Yeah. Everything was in through writing and mail. 
Then maybe the phone would ring and whoever would happen to 
be in the house would answer it. And they'd want directions. So 
you'd have to give them directions, how to get up the mountain 
road and what to look for. And they'd eventually come up the road 
either on foot, car, motorcycle. And most everybody spoke English  
somewhat, and enough to communicate with us. And what was 
your question again Linda? You said something about— 
Long:  How the collective operated?  
Agapito:  How the collective operated, right. Well, the collective was, we 
would have a weekly meeting I believe. And then, we would all sit 
around in the living room and there'd be topics. So you could add 
topics to the list. There may be just general topics about how much 
money we had available. I believe we each paid $115 a month 
towards food and the mortgage maybe, or the household fund. 
And then someone would be in charge of cooking, shopping, 
cleaning, and that would rotate. Those responsibilities would 
rotate. But at the collective meeting, you might have a grievance 
that you'd need to put on the list.  
 For instance, my grievance, one time, the person who cleaned the 
house was called Hazel and there was a TV show with a maid and 
her name was Hazel. And so we decided that the person who 
would clean, who had the responsibility of cleaning, would be 
called Hazel. So, call it “Hazeling” the house. And so, I would start 
emptying the garbage in the bathroom and there would be Kotex 
and tampons in it and I'd throw them into the wood stove and I'd 
light it and they'd start burning. And then it's like, "Ooh, ooh, that 
is a really bad smell." So my grievance at the collective meeting was 
no more tampons and Kotex in goes into the wood burning stove. 
Those need to be thrown out into the regular garbage. And even 
something like that had to be totally discussed and everyone had  
their feelings about it. Like, "Well maybe that would fill up the 
garbage too much," and, "Well I don't notice. Some people  didn't 
notice the smell, what was wrong with that?"  
 It was exhausting but hilarious at the same time because, who 
knows of what a grievance could be? It could be— I didn't want to 
make things up, but anyway, anything and everything came to the 
collective  meeting. And there'd be some pretty interesting disputes 
and grievances and, in the end, collectively we would decide on 
something.  
Long:  Was it all done by consensus then?  
Agapito:  All done by consensus. That was another wonderful new 
experience that I learned. I never lived that way before.  
Raiskin: What did you think of it?  
Agapito:  I liked it a lot. I thought it was a wonderful way to live. I liked 
living with lots of people. I came from basically a nuclear family 
and I thought that this was really fun experiencing what you were 
good at, you could do and excel at. And what you weren't very 
good at,  you could learn new skills. I learned how to weld and I 
learned how to use a loom. I learned how to cook from some of the 
Swedish and German women, some wonderful vegetarian foods. 
Meat wasn't allowed in the main house, but you could cook meat 
over at Fish  Pond. I think you couldn't—was it not drink alcohol? 
Maybe it was sugar. You couldn't eat sugar.   
 There were all these restrictions at the main house, but you could 
go do it at your own cabin or at Fish Pond. So, sometimes we'd say, 
"Want to make hamburger?" "Yeah, let's go."  And so, someone 
would have gone to town and gotten some hamburger meat and 
then we'd be over at Fish  Pond making hamburger. And you'd be 
nervous that you might get caught, but there was nothing wrong 
with it. But still, the vegetarian people were really strong-minded, 
so anything that was forbidden, you'd be sneaking it. And I think I 
remember somebody would hoard cookies somewhere and then 
you'd go, [whispers] "Come on up to my house, we're having 
cookies." And anyway, it was hilarious.  
 There was a lot of—one funny thing, I have to tell this story, Janice 
and I were new. She got there in November, I got there in January 
and sometime at one point everyone had to sign up for a task that 
you didn't want to do, but you had to take turns. And so cleaning 
out the outhouse was one of the tasks and they called it the shitter. 
And so someone had to shovel out the shitter, which was in a big 
tin barrel that was buried in the ground. And you'd go and you'd 
sit on a little toilet seat with a little lean-to over it for privacy. And 
so our job was, you need to shovel it out into a wheelbarrow and 
you take it down the hill and you dump it into a big pile on the 
ground and then cover it with plastic. And then that would be 
composted to be used on ornamentals around the ornamental trees, 
not in the garden.   
 So Janice and I said, "Okay, we'll do it," not knowing what we were 
getting ourselves into. And so the day came, we took our 
wheelbarrow, we put little bandanas over our noses for the smell, 
and then we rolled up to the outhouse and it was kind of full and 
we're going, "Ooh, ooh." And so then we took shovels and one at a 
time and they mix sawdust with  it. So we'd shovel in and go, "Oh, 
oh," shoveling it out. And we'd be having our noses covered and 
then laughing. We laughed hysterically and then we started going, 
"Oh, there's a Lincoln Log." Because poo swells up with water, no 
one knows this, but they  get really large. And you were shoveling 
and laughing and practically peeing your pants because you were 
dry heaving. And anyway, we had a lot of initiations into going 
from city girls into country girls. And that was a really bad 
experience.  
 And then Janice reminded me of one recently. The shower was 
clogged and we had to unclog the pipes. So I remember they said, 
"Okay, Aggie  and Janice, it's your turn." So we had to go out to the 
back of the house, the ground is frozen, and we're digging in the 
frozen ground and going, "How do we even do this? Billie and 
Shannon  go, "Keep going, keep digging." And then we'd finally 
find the pipe. And then, I don't know, we had to unscrew it and 
unclog, I don't know, I don't remember many of the details. But I 
remember the physical details of being freezing and my nose was 
freezing, my hands were freezing, and I was digging in this frozen 
ground and it was crazy hard to do. But we had a great sense of 
humor. We laughed our heads off constantly. We made jokes about  
it. And  that's how we got through the funny experience of it is 
laughing a lot.  
Raiskin:  And so what was the draw? It sounds very difficult and since it's 
not actually a prison camp and you can actually live otherwise, 
what was the draw to live there?  
Agapito:  I think the women were so much fun, that there was so much daily 
excitement and laughter and, a little bit of heartache. Somebody's 
heart was broken by somebody. But, it was a mixture of fascination 
of living with other women and doing tasks that you didn't want to 
do but you had to because it was your responsibility. Reroofing a 
cabin or building a solar hot water heater or cleaning out the 
ditches that ran down the road. And you do everything in big 
groups, so you'd either do it two at a time or three at a time or it 
would be the entire collective had to do it because it was required a 
lot of woman-power to manage a project. And, it was fascinating to 
me how so much got done and it was enjoyable. Even though it 
was hard, it was enjoyable and fun.  
 And there were  so many extracurricular things that went on at 
WomanShare  like workshops and I got to meet so many wonderful 
women in my lifetime there, in my life experience there. Friends 
that I have to this day. And again, the cooking, the food was 
fantastic. We just loved eating and, oh we would can all summer. 
Bev Brown was living with us at the time and she was the expert 
gardener and she grew gigantic cabbages and rows of tomatoes and 
strawberries. And we'd have big canning parties in the house and  
Bev would teach us how to can and garden and everybody brought 
their skillset. Everybody was good at carpentry or welding or car 
engines or building a structure or chopping wood and felling trees, 
and amazes me. There was not anything that we couldn't do. There 
was nothing that we couldn't do.  
 We finally ran electricity down to my cabin because I decided to go 
back to college at the community college and I needed electricity 
and I was trying to write essays by candlelight in my cabin, while I 
froze, and I finally had to come up to the main house to do my 
homework. And I went to the collective and said, "I really would 
like to have electricity in the cabin." And there was a lot of 
discussion about— though finally they said yes. And I remember 
my ex-partner Paula, who was an electrician, coming up and 
helping me string electricity down to the hexagon. And I had light 
for the first time and it was really exciting. I could be a student and 
I could study in my own cabin.  
Raiskin: What were you studying?  
Agapito:  I was studying horticulture. And that went on to moving from 
Rogue Community College to OSU to study horticulture. And then 
Lane Community College to get the science part and that's when I 
finally moved to Eugene. That was about 1989,1990. And then, 
finally going to Olympia to go to Evergreen State College, because 
they had a reciprocity program between the University of Oregon 
and—or was it Lane Community College? I forget. But a reciprocity  
program that I could pay in-state tuition at Evergreen in 
Washington. So that  led to my career in ecological agriculture.  
Raiskin: What was Eugene like when you came here? What was your 
impression of it, and of the lesbian community here?  
Agapito:  It was a wonderful community. It seemed like I learned a great skill 
at WomanShare, and that was making friends and learning how to 
reach out and meet people. And I found a fantastic lesbian 
community in Corvallis when I went to OSU. I found a wonderful, 
wonderful lesbian community in Olympia when I went to 
Evergreen. And when I moved here  to Eugene, I also found a 
fantastic lesbian community. It was really fun and I met a lot of 
women, and a lot of women knew me because they'd come to 
WomanShare. We would have “Talent-No-Talent” shows  every 
summer. And so, women would have hilarious entertainment. And 
a lot of women would come from Eugene, from far and wide, they 
would come to WomanShare  for our— oh, it was the talent show 
had centered around our, usually an anniversary party for 
WomanShare . 
 But anyway, Eugene was really fun. I think my first job was at 
Organically Grown Co. And somebody knew a lesbian there that 
worked there named Flaxen  was her name. And I got in touch with 
her and I said, "I'm looking for a job and I know so-and-so." I don't 
know who I knew, but another lesbian. And she said, "Oh, come on 
down." And she hired me and I was a—I forget what my title was. 
But anyway, I worked in a warehouse and I packed pallets full of  
produce out of the coolers. And we'd wrap the pallets up. And at 
that time Eugene was well known for its twenty-one natural food 
stores or something. There were a huge amount of natural food 
stores in the city. It was phenomenal. I love natural food stores, so I 
made a practice of going around to all of  them and finding out all 
the different ones. Some were tiny, some were big, some were— 
 I really loved co-ops and those are sort of my saving grace. When 
I'd go to a city or town, I'd find the Corvallis co-op or the Olympia 
food co-op. When I came to this  town, co-ops were a bit, there was 
something going on that co-ops weren't as popular, but there was a 
lot of private enterprise in natural food stores. And so working at 
the Organically Grown Co-op was really a fun way to feed my 
organic— I loved organic farming and I decided I wasn't going to 
be a farmer, because I couldn't make a living at it. But I did like 
working in the retail end of it. So, I went to work at some natural 
food stores in town and that was my way of life until I decided to 
go back to college I guess.  
 I finished my undergraduate degree in Olympia and then came 
back here and did my work in natural food stores and then decided 
to go back to school and get a master's in special education at the U 
of O. But before that, meeting women was so much fun. There was 
a group here— anyway, I can't remember the name of it, a lesbian 
group. I’d sort of trained myself to find the lesbians through either 
Mother Kali’s Bookstore or— I was used to gay bars, but in the gay 
bar here was a little different. It wasn't women only. So I was not  
used to— I didn't really go to the gay bar very much here. But I'm 
trying to remember how I connected with lesbians here— 
 Well, before I lived here, I was having a long distance relationship 
with a woman named Cindy Lewis. And so, she lived with LaRosa. 
She was roommates with the LaRosa. I had my long distance 
relationship, so I'd drive from WomanShare  up to Eugene or she'd 
drive down. And then that's what made me finally move to 
Eugene. So, through LaRosa and Cindy, they knew a lot of women 
and I believe that's pretty much how I got to experience the lesbian 
community. Then women started recognizing me and knowing me 
from WomanShare  and I believe together through all that, that's 
how I made friends.  
Long:  Did you know about Starflower? Was it still operating when you 
arrived in Eugene?  
Agapito:  I believe it was, but I didn't really know about it. And I probably, if 
it was still operating, I would have liked to have worked there. But 
I don't think— I either heard about it or  knew about it, and found 
Organically Grown Co-op. There were lesbians working there, but 
there were also men as well. Straight and lesbians.  
Raiskin: Why did you decide to study special education?  
Agapito:  I was volunteering. My partner Cindy was working with Mobility 
International, USA, short word MIUSA, for that organization. And 
they were an organization that worked with people from all 
different countries, also the U.S., people with physical disabilities.  
And I— Because I was her partner and they needed volunteers for 
things, I'd said, "Oh, I'll volunteer." They were going to cook for 
sixty  participants at a gathering at the coast. And so I said, I'll do 
the cooking and I had to cook on a wood stove, which I'd never 
done, but I was making chili and hot dogs and whatever it was,  
required big batches of scrambled eggs. And MIUSA was just a 
fascinating organization and I'd never really spent time with people 
with disabilities and just was, again, a new learning curve for me, a 
new, wonderful experience.  
 And so, stayed volunteering for MIUSA for many, many years. 
And decided to go back and get a degree teaching special education 
and working with people with disabilities, because I did really love 
the work. And loved the population of people and all the different 
things that are brought to enriching my life and society and it was 
wonderful fun.  
Raiskin: Where did you end up working in that field?  
Agapito:  Well, it was very hard to get— I had this wonderful dream of 
becoming a special ed teacher. But when I got into the work, for 
various reasons, it was really a struggle for me. I actually found out 
I had a learning disability. I went to a psychologist and got tested. 
And it really helped me make sense going all the way back to my 
childhood, that why I struggled so much. Meanwhile I had to get 
through my graduate program and I had a two-and-a-half-year old 
child, two-and-a-half-year old daughter. And one of my saving 
respites was working at Special Collections, and I met Linda. And  
she had a baby as well and we  connected with our children and our 
lifestyles and we became close very fast. It was one of those 
experiences that I might not have survived if I hadn't worked at my 
work-study job at Special Collections, or met Linda and Peggy, and 
because our daughters were all the same age and basically within 
months or couple of years of each other.  
 So I struggled through that program. And along with realizing that 
I had a disability and I realized I didn't want to be a special ed 
teacher. I could go into massive details about why that was so hard 
for me. But mainly, I realized what was my original goal, which 
was working with people with disabilities. And I thought, oh, well 
I don't have to be a special ed teacher. I have the background now. I 
can do anything in that field, and so I did. I finally found a job 
working for Direction Service, which was a nonprofit agency 
working with families who had children with disabilities. And it 
was my perfect niche. I loved my work. I didn't have to stand up in 
a class and work with in front of thirty  children or whatever. And 
anyway, I fell into the perfect role and with my education.  
 And meanwhile, my life here in Eugene, I just met wonderful, 
wonderful people and raised my daughter, met my partner Toby, 
who I met when Maya  was born. But we had a women's dinner 
club and there were four of us, four women, Judy Goldstein, 
Harriet Rubin, Toby Finkelstein,  and myself. And we would meet 
once a month and each of us would cook dinner for the other three 
at our houses. And at that point I  said, "I'm going to adopt a child."  
And then I remember taking Maya, she was just like a week or two 
old, to Judy Goldstein's house and she was in a tiny little carrier 
and everyone fawned over her. And, that's how I met— I've known 
Toby and then I had a dream about her, a sexual dream, and I told 
the three women at the table and that was sort of the start of our 
relationship.  
 And so, Maya was kind of always raised by the village, because my 
daughter's name is Maya, and Toby and I got together shortly after 
that. I was in a past relationship with a woman named Lisa and I 
was going to be a single mom, but Lisa wanted to help. And so I 
invited her to help me because it was after I had this tiny baby, I 
thought, what have I done? This is way harder than I ever 
expected. So I appreciated the help. And so anyway, dinner club, 
met Toby, got into a relationship, started raising my daughter, went  
back to school. Met wonderful women like Linda and Peggy, I 
believe I met you Julee here on campus and started realizing  how 
many lesbians there were in the community, in every area. 
Professors at the university.  
 I worked at the corner market at New Frontier Market. Just 
wonderful, wonderful connections with all the lesbians in Eugene, 
and how much fun it was living here despite some of the adversity 
of the different measures that were taking place.  
Raiskin: About the ballot measures?   
Agapito:  About the different ballot measures. I do need to go back in time 
for a moment, I hope we have time for this. But, when I lived at 
WomanShare, there was a very— Grants Pass was a very heavy, 
heavy right-wing, white, as well, and right-wing community. And 
we had heard that there was going to be a pro-abortion march, 
excuse me, anti-abortion march in town. And so all the right-to-
lifers were coming out and were going to be marching down the 
streets of Eugene. Excuse me, marching down the streets of Grants 
Pass. So, four of us decided to go have a pro-abortion stance. And 
some of the women at WomanShare  were afraid to come, because 
they had jobs in town and they didn't want to be seen.  
Agapito:  But, four of us had nothing to lose and we wanted to go protest. We 
made signs on sticks and we took a tape recorder. I think I hung an 
old— I was a house painter in Long Beach, that was one of my jobs. 
I had my own house painting business, and I had this little 
boombox. I put a little cassette in it. I had brought that with me to 
WomanShare, and so I carried it around my neck and held a sign. 
And we were chanting. When they got to be on the street, we had 
to be on the sidewalk and we said, "Keep your laws off our bodies, 
keep your laws off our bodies." And we were being jeered, and 
shouted at, and I believe that that tape, cassette tape, might be in 
Tee Corinne’s collection, but, and I might have a copy of it.  
 Anyway, it was a very thrilling first experience at being political in 
a very scary— I believe Grants Pass was the head of the Ku Klux 
Klan and the right wing. It was a very scary time, and that  
would've been nineteen— I'm going to say '86, 1986. And very 
thrilling to protest in Grants Pass. So then moving forward, back up 
to Eugene, the one I believe, I think it was No on 9, I'd have to get 
clarification on that one. But I remember holding a sign walking up 
across the Coburg— What's it called? The Coburg Bridge?  
Raiskin: The Ferry Street Bridge.  
Agapito:  The Ferry Street Bridge, thank you. I had a sign and it said, I 
believe “No on 9,” and there were three of us. And we were 
marching across the Ferry Street Bridge with our signs so that all 
the cars could see us going back and forth. A man came towards 
me and he had his own sign. And he had something negative. And 
I took my sign and I whacked his sign with my sign, and then he 
whacked his sign on my sign. And then it was like, "Whoa, we 
could get into it." But, then I got a little bit scared and I kept going 
with my sign, and that's the most violence I ever experienced. And 
then there were— a lot of it's vague, but different women would 
have house parties, and trying to raise money, and  trying to recruit 
people to help on canvasing door to door, and phone. They call 
those phone banks, I think they call them.  
 And I'm a pretty timid person. I'm more of an introvert, shyer. And 
it's really hard to get me to go to things like that, let alone hold a 
sign and march. But somehow I mustered the energy in many 
occasions. And really it was a scary time to live in Eugene. And you 
didn't want to go to Springfield because it wasn't safe and they 
were very— they  supported— here  I'm not going to be able to  
repeat the politics very well, but they were in support of the anti-
gay/les legislation. And so whatever was going on, there were 
towns that you didn't want to go to.  You didn't ever go to Junction 
City, or Springfield and give them your business.  
 You only supported businesses that supported gay politics. And 
even in Eugene, if you found out that a business was anti-gay, 
everyone would pass the word really quickly, verbally or by phone, 
and say, "Oh, we just heard so-and-so." I won't name names, "But 
we just heard so and so's business. Don't go there and don't shop 
there." So word spread really fast who we could support and who 
we couldn't.  
Raiskin: Can you say something about raising Maya and what it was like to 
deal with the schools or other families? 
Long: And actually if I could just ask if you could go back further than 
that and tell us what it was like— what the adoption process was 
like?  
Agapito:  Sure. So in my younger years, I wanted to have a child, tried to get 
pregnant and couldn't, even went  to an infertility doctor in Los 
Angeles when I was married. Got divorced, became a lesbian. And 
I remember thinking, Oh well, I lost that chance. Gays and lesbians 
don't have children.  And I didn't know anybody with any— the 
only people I knew were people  that already had children, and 
they either lost their children in a divorce because they were gay or, 
or they got to keep their children. But I didn't ever know of  
anybody successfully having a child when they were gay. So I left 
that thought behind. I went through life. I moved to Eugene  and a 
couple of friends, I believe I knew two women in Seattle who were 
the first to fight for the adoption of the daughter that they had 
together.  
 I knew of them because I had friends in Olympia and it was about 
the time those two women fought for the right, the first in the 
country I believe, to adopt their child together. And then, so I'm 
really not sure what came over me, what thought processes came 
over me to adopt a child. But it was part of the zero population 
control that I remember in the ‘70s being, it was so important to me 
that the planet was becoming overpopulated and there was a push, 
and it was called zero population control. And I was so a part of 
that. And I do remember before I wanted to get pregnant, if I was 
to get pregnant, I’d have an abortion. That that was important to 
me. We weren't married, but we were in a relationship. The man 
that I was with, we were both very sure that I'd have an abortion 
because I so strongly believed in zero population control. 
 So then we decided we wanted to have a child and that it would be 
okay because you were allowed to have— the belief was one child 
per adult, so you could have up to two children. And so then I 
thought, "Well, we could have a child." That belief came with me, 
and I believed strongly in abortion my whole life, my whole adult 
life. And then protesting in Grants Pass, and then finally wanting to 
adopt a child, I realized I didn't want to give birth. It always scared  
me anyway, and I didn't need to. So I  felt like I was a perfect person 
to adopt. And I knew now other women were starting to use 
artificial insemination and that they were choosing gay men  to 
inseminate. And I thought, Okay, that's wonderful, but I don't need 
to do that. In fact, what I'd like to do is  give an unwanted child a 
home.  
 I believed in that very strongly and started— then  the first person I 
knew that adopted was Lynne Lucas, and her daughter was from 
China. And I went, "Hmm, that's interesting. I could adopt. I could 
adopt and I  could adopt as a single parent maybe." But I went to an 
agency and they had some meetings. It was in McMinnville. And I 
remember being afraid of being lesbian that you couldn't be— the 
word was, you couldn't really be a lesbian, but you could be a 
single parent. So I hid my being a lesbian. I wore matching 
earrings, which I never do. And I kind of put some dye in my hair 
to look a little younger maybe. And I remember wearing a blouse, I 
called it a blouse. And I went to the adoption meeting and I went, 
"Okay, I'm ready for this. I'm going to jump through every hoop 
they tell me to do."  
 And I didn't know what country or where the child would come 
from. But then it came down to how much a child cost, and a child 
from other countries costs a lot of money. And I didn't have a lot. 
And I had won a class action lawsuit from having a DellCon Shield 
and— 
Raiskin:  That was an IUD?   
Agapito:  And it was a IUD. And I was part of a big class action lawsuit, and I 
won some money while it was living at WomanShare, put it in the 
bank. And I had that money to use to adopt a child. And so they 
said, "Well, children from the United States were less expensive." 
And I said, "Then that's what I'll do  and I’ll  adopt an African 
American child." And I remember being very excited about it, and 
telling all my family. And I remember my grandmother who was 
born in Alabama, who was raised in the South, she wrote me a 
letter back and said, "Honey, I'm so excited for you and so excited 
that you're going to adopt a child and I hope that you'll adopt any 
child except a black child."  
 And I called her and said, "Granny, why would you say that?" And 
she said, "Honey, I'm just so scared for you having a white mother 
with a black child. I fear for your life, and I fear for danger, and for 
the child, for both of your lives." And plus she was racist, but she 
was coming from a place of being racist and fearing. And had a lot 
of fear. So I said, "Well, granny, I am going to adopt a black child." 
And so as usual, I was the one who did a lot of things like being a 
lesbian, and being a hippie, and taking a different road than most 
of my family members. And so it was standing up to that and 
believing in it that it was the right thing to do. But the agency, I had 
to be very closeted.  
Raiskin: May I ask why  you wanted to adopt an African American child?  
Agapito:  I had this wonderful feeling of— it was a political statement in my 
mind and children needed homes, and I didn't care what color the  
child was. I just wanted to give a child a good home, and I knew I  
could do it. I knew that I had the ability;  I didn't make a lot of 
money, but that I could give a child a good life and be a good 
parent.  
Raiskin: Did you specifically want an African American child or were you 
open to whatever the agency had?  
Agapito:  Well, I was open to any, but then it came down to money, and I 
realized, "Oh, a child from Ecuador costs, I don't know, $40,000. A 
child from China costs thousands and thousands of dollars." And 
then I said, "How much is an African American child?" Eight 
thousand dollars." Then, "This is so sad. Why is an African 
American child— cost so little? That's terrible." And yet that's what 
I had the money for.  
Raiskin: I don't understand the difference. Different race children in the 
United States, not other countries, in the United States, would cost 
different to— 
Agapito:  A white child would've cost a lot more. And I did not want a white 
child.  
Long: Even a biracial child costs more than— 
Agapito:  Even a biracial child costs more. And so I remember them saying— 
I remember my therapist asking me- “Well— “ I said, "Well, I 
would like a child that would be at least a light skinned child so 
that it would look like I was the child's biological mother. That was  
my first thought in therapy. And then I said, "Oh, I see. It doesn't 
matter. It doesn't matter that the child looks like my biological 
child. I can adopt any child and they'll be my adopted child." And 
then the paperwork came back and it said, "We have a child." First 
they had a boy. And I said, "I think I'll wait for a girl." And funny 
how you can make that choice. And then they said, "We have a 
girl," and they listed her skin color. They listed the skin color of her 
mother and the skin color of the child. And they said, "Light 
brown." And I said, "Light brown?" Well, as both of you know, my 
child is dark brown and she's not light brown. And even on 
paperwork people lie. The color of a person's skin is— 
 It's so scary how our society views skin color, and how even I 
viewed skin color, like it was going to be too scary for me if I had a 
dark skin child and I was a white skin person. But I'm talking 
hours, days, weeks. I quickly changed my thinking. I realized that I 
was being racist, and that I would love to have any child, I don't 
care what their skin color is. And as soon as I saw that paperwork, 
light-skinned, fine. And then as soon as I saw her very dark skin, 
"Love this little baby." So it was a fascinating experience inside of 
me to go through my own built-up racism and then break down 
those barriers and realize that  color didn't have anything to do with 
it. That it was about loving this baby. And then again, color did 
have a lot to do with it, and I was extremely proud to have this 
dark-skinned child. And her skin was so beautiful, and then I 
wanted to teach her everything about her culture. And that again, 
another learning curve for me.   
 I did everything I could to teach her about her race, and it went on 
from there. It started such a wonderful new experience even 
though back when I was young and I saw that, I had young black 
friends, and everyone was— we were all hippies. And then I saw 
that sign that said “Black is beautiful.” I mean, and stop being racist 
jokes when I was in my twenties. It just continued my own work of 
racism inside myself and, and now I had this beautiful child, and I 
was going to stand up to anybody and anything to give her the best 
life possible. I don't know if I said all that right, but— maybe  you'll 
edit it all out.  
Raiskin: Were you part of any parenting groups? Or do you— you said that 
Maya was raised by a village, who was the village?  
Agapito:  Oh all right, let's see. Well, we had Janice and Ginger. We had Lisa, 
Toby, a lot of— then, you’re right,  I got involved with Rainbow 
Rascals, which was a lesbian moms group, and met lots of 
wonderful women through that. It might've been how I met Linda 
and Peggy. I do remember the very moment I met them. They came 
to a neighbor's house of mine, and my neighbor had adopted an 
African-American boy who was older than Maya, maybe about six 
years older, and somehow they were friends. Maybe through the 
university. And we met in their backyard and here we were. They 
were two lesbians.  
 Here was— I don't know if I was by myself or with Lisa maybe. I 
had a little baby wrapped in a blanket. They had even a tinier baby 
wrapped in a blanket, and they had this little adopted boy. And  
here we were, three families with three little black children. It was 
so much fun. It was like the first experience for me of, "This is my 
community and this is so awesome. And this is how it's going to be. 
I'm going to keep meeting people with children of color." And then 
I met Aquene. She came into the store where I worked and she 
knew that I had Maya who was a baby, and she had her little boy 
who she’d  adopted, Canyon. And she said, "Well, I'm starting up 
this group and I'm wondering if you wanted to be part of it." And I 
said, "Sure, it sounds fun."  
 And I believe we might've gone to Julee and Mary's house and had 
a meeting there and we had all of our little babies crawling around, 
running around. And it just was fun. It was fun getting to hear 
other stories. And I felt a comradery. I felt a big  sense of relief that I 
was meeting other lesbians, raising children. And there were 
children of color, there were birth children, there were adopted 
children of different colors. It was just a fun mixture of women. 
And what we had in common was we were lesbians and we had 
children. And that turned into from pretty much Maya's birth to 
the— All the children's growing up years till they graduated from 
high school and beyond. So that's been a great experience.  
Raiskin: So Maya's gone off to college and you've  retired recently?  
Agapito:  Yes. 
Raiskin: So what's your life like now? What are you thinking about the 
future?   
Agapito:  Well, I'm actually, I don't know if this is the first time for you two 
to hear this, but Toby and I are renting out the bottom part of our 
house. We're going to save the top part of our house where Toby 
lives. It's a one bedroom apartment, and that's going to be our 
snowbird apartment. And then I've applied for low income senior 
housing in Hawaii. And I'm going to go live on Oahu in about  a 
year and a half. And I love it in Hawaii and so I'm going to live 
there full time. And I might come back and snowbird with Toby 
once in a while, but she'll come and live there in the winter with 
me, and then we'll visit here in the summer. But Maya is off to 
college and I believe she's got a pretty steady start.  
 You know, it gets rocky at times. She's about to go be an Au Pair in 
Madrid, Spain on October 1, and she wanted to take a gap year 
from college. So you know, every mother worries about these kinds 
of things. But she's a young adult. She's turning twenty-two and— 
Raiskin: Remember what you were doing when you were twenty-two. 
Agapito:  And do I ever, I mean, yeah, I was wild and crazy and off on my 
own. So she wants to come visit me. Wonderful. But  yeah, that's 
where I am now. I look back and reflect on the fact that I'm retired 
and all the wonderful experiences I've had. And I feel blessed, and 
all the women I've known and met. Back at that faithful day, that 
night that I walked into the gay bar and never had a single regret, 
never looked back. And here I am today with wonderful friends, 
and a beautiful daughter, and partner and wonderful plans for the 
future.   
Raiskin: Are you confident that you can make a community in Hawaii?  
Agapito:  Absolutely. And actually, my best friend Diana, who— one of my 
best friends, she's lived in Hawaii for twenty-five years. And she 
actually has done all the leg work to find the independent living 
senior housing that we're both going to be living in. She's going to 
be moving from the big Island, and she's seventy-five, and I'll be 
sixty-eight this coming September. So it's a good time for me. I still 
have— if I have a lot of life in me, that's  wonderful. I see myself 
being really busy in Hawaii and doing a lot of group things, and 
helping people, and getting involved in everything Hawaiian.  
Raiskin: Is this— you said it was assisted living? What is it? It's a 
retirement?  
Agapito:  Yeah. It's called low income senior housing.  
Raiskin: Okay.  
Agapito:  And I qualify. So— 
Raiskin: Do you know if there's other lesbians or gay men living there?  
Agapito:  Well, Diana will certainly be there and she's a very political, 
wonderful, witchy, lesbian from San Francisco and she always 
finds— she knows women everywhere. She knows lesbians 
everywhere. She is a social butterfly and I'll be kind of following in 
her tracks. So honestly, I'd be fine being a hermit and just walking 
to the beach and whatever I want to do. But yeah, no, I believe we'll 
be very involved in the lesbian community on Oahu.   
Raiskin: Looking back at your rich life that you've just described, imagine a 
young person watching this video. Is there something that you 
would— some  advice you would give or something you'd like to 
say?  
Agapito:  Well, I'd just say maybe a couple of things. One would be really 
trust your instincts. And what surprised me is that I became a 
lesbian at age thirty and it was a wonderful experience. And I also 
adopted a child at age forty-six, who would ever thought? I mean, I 
meet young people now in their twenties and they're so sure of 
what they're going to do and where they're going. And they say 
they're not going to have children. I said, "Hmm. I said that too, but 
look what happened to me." I just say experience life for whatever 
it brings you, and be willing to take the ride, because it's really fun 
and you never know what's coming.  
Raiskin: I'll take that good advice too. Thank you.  
Long: Thank you very much.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  