 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through The University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Lyn Neeley  and Linda Rose on 
August 23, 2018, taking place in The University of Oregon 
Libraries' recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries' Special Collections and University 
Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin, of the UO Department of 
Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Lyn, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the university to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Neeley:  Yes, I agree.   
Long:  And, Linda, please let us know the same.  
Rose:  I do.  
Long:  Okay. Thank you very much. Why don't we begin with a basic 
question. Can you tell us, both of you, Lyn let's just start with you. 
When and where you born, where you grew up and something 
about your early background.  
Neeley:  I was born in 1950 in Portland, Oregon and I grew up there and 
went to the University of Oregon to go to college.  
Long:  Okay. All right, Linda, why don't you tell us that basic information 
and then we'll go back to Lyn to follow up on that.  
Rose:  I was born in 1949 in New York and went to undergraduate school 
in Buffalo, New York, which was the furthest I could get from New 
York and still be in a New York State scholarship system. 
Immediately from there, I went to the West Coast and lived in San 
Francisco for a year and met somebody from Eugene and thought, 
Oh, I have to go up there, and so I applied to the U of O Dance 
Department and got in and just went and so I came here in 1971 for 
the first time, where I met Lyn.  
Neeley: Yeah.  
Long:  Okay, Lyn. Why don't we go back to you. If you could tell us— so, 
you were born in Portland and then you came down to Eugene to 
attend the University of Oregon?   
Neeley:  Yeah, when I was— 
Long:  What year was that?  
Neeley:  Let's see, probably 1969 or ‘70, something like that and I was a pre-
med student but I was taking dance on the side and slowly that 
shifted and that's when I met Linda.  
Long:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  Could we  hear a little bit more about your childhood, the kind of 
family you came from— 
Neeley:  Oh, Okay.  
Raiskin:  How you understood yourself in middle school, high school, a little 
bit about your— 
Neeley:  I had a really nice childhood. My father was a high school teacher, 
biology teacher and a basketball coach in Portland. My mom was a 
housewife and we went camping in the summers to the Wallowa 
Mountains  and he would go fishing and catch the fish and birds 
that we would eat, so it was really nice that way. I got a real good 
appreciation of the woods, so when I moved away from Portland, 
when Wallflower moved to the East Coast, I lived in New York for 
a long time. I always missed the green, so when I moved back a 
couple years ago, oh,  Oregon's so wonderful. That's all I can think 
of. I was a tomboy. I can't think of anything right now.  
Rose: Can I jump ahead for a minute?   
Long:  Yes. 
Rose:  Because what you're reminding me of is one of the first times we 
went camping together in Eugene. Lyn said, I want to show you 
how to make cowboy coffee. Now, I grew up in New York on Long 
Island. We did not go camping, you know? We went to the motel 
circuit in the Catskills but anyway, so I didn’t really know  the 
woods, so she makes cowboy coffee and we both take a sip of our 
coffee at the same time and go— 
Neeley:  We look at each other— 
Rose:  Ooh.  
Neeley:  Ooh.  
Long:  What was wrong with it?  
Rose:  I thought it was awful. She thought it was fabulous and that was 
the nature of our relationship.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  The positive and the negative.  
Neeley:  The Long Island, yes.  
Rose:  Yeah. The Jew and the not Jew.  
Neeley:  Yeah.   
Raiskin:  When did you first think of yourself as a lesbian or something other 
than straight?  
Neeley:  I didn't until Wallflower.  
Raiskin:  Oh, interesting.  
Neeley:  The community, the environment, and just we were so close and so  
we all kind of came out at the same time during the early ‘80's, 
right? No, before that, ‘70's.  
Rose:  70's, yeah.  
Long:  Well, we'd like to know all about Wallflower but before we start in 
on that, Lyn, can you tell us what your impressions of campus and  
of Eugene in the late ‘60's was like?  
Neeley:  In the late ‘60's. When I first came to  U of O?  
Long:  Yeah. What you recall of Eugene and the UO campus at that time.  
Neeley:  I was pretty young. I was unaware. It was a big and— you know? I 
was a freshman and it was a beautiful campus but it was just big, 
overwhelming. I was kind of a loner because  I was in the science 
department, so I spent— and I didn't have a lot of money. I was on 
abundant foods so I really didn't get around. I was kind of a loner 
and spent my time in the science library doing my science work.  
Long:  Do you remember— did you ever go to downtown Eugene?  
Neeley:  Yeah, but no. I didn't go out. I was kind of— yeah.   
Raiskin:  And, coming from New York, I don't think you saw Eugene as 
large, right? 
Rose:  Oh, no. This was small town and so I went to undergraduate school 
at Buffalo at the heyday of the anti-war movement, so it was very 
political and we were marching in the streets and being tear gassed 
and it was pretty exciting times and so Eugene  kind of, for me it 
sort of fit in that way, too. I got married to a man and moved to 
Eugene, married. Started graduate school, the Dance Department, 
married, and— 
Long:  Can we back up for a sec? Can you tell us— 
Rose:  Sure.  
Long:  Why you chose the University of Oregon, I can't remember. Had 
you already mentioned— 
Rose:  Because I met somebody while I was camping on our cross-country 
trip who was in the Grand Canyon and said he was from Oregon 
and it just sounded fabulous and I thought, Well, I got to  go check 
it out.  During that summer  when I first came out, I hitchhiked to 
Eugene in a nice VW bus and I just fell in love with Eugene, so 
when I decided to go to graduate school, it's the only school that I 
applied to and I got in and so— And  then I got married and we 
moved together up to Eugene and I finished the graduate program 
in dance and taught during that time as well and then got involved 
with— prior to the Wallflower Order, there was a group of forty  
people on the west side at the WOW Hall, called the Eugene Dance  
Collective and we just— of all different varieties of people that had 
dance backgrounds and not dance backgrounds and we danced 
and performed for the community and it was really fun.  
 And, then one summer, a few of us, Krissy Keefer, Alex Dunnette, 
myself, and Laurel Near, decided to stay while everybody else was 
taking a break and put on a show and that was the seed of 
Wallflower Order and then Lyn joined us about two months after 
that. She was away studying dance and joined us and then we 
became five and shortly after Wallflower, I separated from my 
husband and came out and that was not a surprise but— 
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit about that, that process?  
Rose:  I kind of knew it for a really long time. I was always attracted to 
girls and women, my gym teachers, you know? The usual. And in 
fact, I said to my husband when I left, I think I'm really attracted to 
women and he said, that's what my first girlfriend said too, so we 
were kind of, I think, copasetic in that way. It just felt natural and 
as Lyn was saying, in Wallflower Order, we really fell in love with 
each other. That was part of the power of the time, I think. That we 
were creating together but we were in love with each other so why 
not take it to the next place? Not that we were all lovers but there 
was that feeling.  
Raiskin:  What kind of dance did you each do, specialize in before 
Wallflower?  
Long:  And, why is it called Wallflower?   
Rose:  Oh, yeah, good question.  
Neeley:  Yeah. So, I didn't do anything. I was a tomboy and very athletic in 
gymnastics in high school and I never took a dance class until 
college but then at the— and—  
I kind of want to go back because after I first got to the University 
of Oregon, I did taste tear gas. We marched against the war in 
Vietnam and so there was that environment that I came into that 
also gave over to the environment of the Eugene women's 
community, which was a big influence on us coming out in 
Wallflower, I think, too.  
The name— I was a natural fit for dance and that's what was a 
natural change for me to go from science, pre-med, into dance, it 
was just fun and it was easier for me to evolve as a dancer that way 
but the name came from a book that  Krissy was reading by— it was 
called Mumbo Jumbo, by Ishmael Reed and the Wallflowers were 
actually a reactionary group that tried to suppress dancing.  
 But, the name stuck out to her and she suggested it and it just fit us, 
it was the order part. We were  very— we took dance classes every 
day. We were very, what do you call it?  
Rose:  Disciplined.  
Neeley:  Disciplined, thank you. And, we were also wallflowers in our lives.   
Rose:  I think also because we didn't have the typical body types of 
dancers. That was part of the theme was that nobody would ask us 
to dance in terms of real companies— 
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  So, we had to dance with each other and I think the “Order” also 
came from that we had a mission. That there was a kind of 
sisterhood and a mission to the group.  
Neeley:  Right, yeah.  
Rose:  So, it was such a great name, it was really, I think, part of the best 
of us.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And, what would you say the mission was in the beginning?  
Rose:  Well, in the beginning, it was feminist politics, I think, really. I 
think that's how we started. Even before lesbian, it was feminist.  
Neeley:  I think in the beginning, we liked dance.  
Rose:  That's true.  
Neeley:  We evolved into that. I think that we got a lot of pressure from the 
community to analyze what we were doing and so because we 
were women, we were championed for that by the Eugene 
women's community. We got a reflection of that and we got 
challenges, too.   
Rose:  You're absolutely right, because  our very first piece that we did 
was just pure movement, it was called, “It's Not That Big a Deal.” 
There was no music, it was just following each others’ breath  and 
moving in a very athletic way and there was a lot of pieces like that 
and then we got into much more meaningful pieces that I think 
were feminist, eventually moved into lesbian identified and then 
into class politics.  
Neeley:  Right. It was naïve at first because we had a piece called “Sisters” 
that was a rotating duet and we all had sisters and we were just 
kind of telling stories about drawing the line in the room and 
throwing the stuff over on your sister's side and two of us would sit 
up and tell a story about our sisters and this rotating duet, they 
would dance out that story and one would go sit down and another 
would come up  and another story teller would take the— it was 
Pachelbel's— 
Rose:  Canon in D, that very popular— romantic, very romantic  piece.  
Neeley:  Sappy.  
Neeley:  But, at the time it was new but it was beautiful and that's why I 
mean naïve, we were moving together and it was just so— then 
what else?  
Rose:  I just wanted to fill in my dance background, too, because  it's really 
different than Lyn's. When you say that, I'm so surprised because  I 
don't remember you not being a dancer. It's just really different. I 
grew up with dance lessons, ballet, and did the very traditional  
kind of dance for years and then modern dance and so going into 
dance was— and also, I was an athlete, too and a tomboy— 
Neeley:  Right.  
Rose:  —in many ways.  So, then moving into dance as a  profession and 
became a dance therapist as well so I just sort of moved along with 
movement all along. We all met at the university, actually. The five 
of us.  We were there at different capacities and stuff.  
Long:  Were you a troupe then?  
Rose:  Not in the U of O. It was outside.  
Neeley:  It was after we graduated.  
Long:  A dance— 
Rose:  Yeah.  
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  So, when you say you were— first you were women dancing and 
then you had sort of a feminist message. Can you describe that, 
what your pieces would be like that would have these kinds of 
messages? The lesbian and what some of those pieces looked like?  
Neeley:  Well, I think “Amazon” is probably our most lesbian identified 
piece. We had costumes that came up to here. It was a one  piece 
pantsuit that came up and then we pulled it up to our knees and  
we had these little skinny dowels that were our weapons and we 
stood all together and looking into the camera and we'd go like this 
with our dowels and then we'd— oh, like that and we'd— you 
know? But, it was— we acted like amazons and we danced, it was 
bold. I can't remember the music. Was there music?  
Rose:  I don't remember if there— I don't think there was music but 
during some of the shows, we did women's-only shows and those 
we did  topless.  
Neeley:  Yeah. We did “Amazon” with— oh, yeah, we pulled our thing 
down to here.  
Rose:  We pulled it down to here.  
Neeley:  Right.  
Rose:  So, we were being more Amazonian realists.  
Neeley:  It was a women's only show, yeah.  
Rose:  In that sense. But there were pieces about lesbian relationships and 
Krissy  and Laurel did that beautiful duet to “I Don't Like You But I 
Love You,” the Laura Nyro  song, remember that?  
Neeley:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]  
Rose:  That was a beautiful piece and it's hard to remember the specifics 
but there was a wonderful piece, “Giving Birth to the Self.”  
Neeley:  Yeah.   
Rose:  It's hard to describe these things.  
Neeley:  That was the same outfit. We used those outfits, so those we pulled 
up to our neck, I think, and we had— it was— [moves arms 
together]  
Rose:  It was just like this  [moves arms together].  
Neeley:  Our dance teacher finally came to our show and she never really 
liked any of us because  we were too outrageous, but she said  it was 
Martha Graham-ish. But, yeah we would close  our legs and then 
open it up and we had white shiny scarves on our head, so— 
Rose:  Somebody's head would be in somebody else's crotch, so you'd 
kind of open up and there was be this white head in there and then 
close it down again, it was very beautiful.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  That was the birthing?  
Rose:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Long:  And, for clarification, can you tell us, where would you do these 
performances? How did you make those arrangements?  
Rose:  At the Wow Hall, that was our home.  
Neeley:  Before it was a community center.   
Rose:  We rehearsed. We really worked hard, actually. We rehearsed, we 
took dance classes every day and/or taught. We rehearsed three 
hours every day, either at the WOW Hall or at the U of O in 
Gerlinger and we were lucky to get the space at Gerlinger, I don't 
think we paid, so we did that five days a week and— 
Raiskin:  How did you support yourselves while you were doing this?  
Rose:  That's a good question.  
Neeley:  Barely.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Neeley:  Two of us were cooks at the Excelsior. At night, we made the 
Churrasco  buns all night. Just odd jobs and then we'd go away on 
tour and we'd come back and we'd— 
Rose:  Yeah, we had to do jobs that we could leave so that we could go on 
tour. I worked at Mama's Homefried Truckstop, a  part of that 
collective.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that collective?  
Long:  Yeah, what was it?  
Raiskin:  We've heard of that.  
Rose:  Oh, that was a great collective, so that's where Pegasus Pizza is 
now, right  close to the campus. We were about forty  people in the 
collective and it was great for breakfast and there was music that  
people would play, like Kat and Jo would play and David Winters 
would play, all the people that were part of the west side and so 
you could either be a waitress, you could be a cook, you could be 
on the cleanup and I think some of the jobs rotated. I can't quite 
remember but it was a wonderful place to work because  everybody 
was part of the collective.  
Neeley:  Right.  
Long:  Who had started that?  
Rose:  You know, there's a women and I can't remember her name but I 
saw this at the— when they did the show at Lane County Fair 
Grounds of the 70's in Eugene and all the collectives, there was a 
great poster of Mama's Homefried Truckstop and the woman's 
name and she said something like, “It was really great until it 
wasn't any longer” and that's kind of how I think a lot of collectives 
felt but it was a really wonderful place to work, so I did that. I also 
drove the bus for Pearl Buck Center.  
Neeley:  Oh, yeah.  
Rose:  We just did whatever we had to.  
Neeley:  I worked at Pearl Buck.  
Rose:  You did too?  
Neeley:  With the kids, yeah.  
Rose:  Yeah and we had food stamps and—  
Neeley:  Yeah, and we ate cottage cheese. We all had our little mixes. That's 
what Linda was saying just before we came. Cottage cheese with 
sunflower seeds and you either put molasses or brewer's yeast on it 
and we just— 
Rose:  Yeah.  
Long:  So, you had to be very frugal?  
Rose:  Very frugal.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  We lived in a house together for a while, without any furniture. We 
just like— I think about it, I was like, there was a nook that was 
build into the kitchen— 
Neeley:  The nook.  
Rose:  So, if we weren't there, there would be no other place to sit and in 
the bedrooms, people just had futons on the ground.  
Neeley:  Mattresses, yeah.  
Rose:  And, crates for clothes. We were really poor.  
Raiskin:  How many people lived in that house?  
Rose:  Five of us, I think.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  Yeah.   
Long:  Where was it?  
Neeley:  Olive.  
Rose:  Seventeenth  and Olive. I've gone by; it's a beautiful house now. 
They really did something with it. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  So, the five of you were the original Wallflower?  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  When you went on tour, where did you go?  
Rose:  Well, for the first two years of tour, I think, we went all around the 
country and it was— 
Neeley:  Well, up and down the West Coast.  
Rose:  First we did up and down the West Coast, right.  
Raiskin:  And, how would you book and who was your audiences?  
Rose:  Right, so do you want to tell the first one of the— 
Neeley:  Okay, yeah. Laurel Near was in our company and Holly was her 
older sister and Holly was going to Seattle to do a concert and said, 
“Well, why don't you open up for me?” That was our first out-of-
Eugene concert and— 
Rose:  To a really large crowd.  
Neeley:  Yes, and then Laurel and Krissy  would write on the old tablets, that 
you turn over just with the lines, no holes just— they would write  
to production companies up and down the west coast, like in 
California, I guess, you know, “We are five women from Eugene. 
We have a dance company, can you produce us?” And, that was 
how we got that but then we— 
Rose:  Yeah, and then it was a women's community all across the country 
that basically produced us, so I booked the next two tours across 
the country and just contacted all the women's groups. Women's 
centers, women's bookstores, whatever groups of women. 
Women’s theater companies, and they would host us and they 
would house us and they would fill the spaces and we were in Ann 
Arbor, Michigan and Helena, Montana. We went all the way to 
Boston and New York and— 
Raiskin:  Did you learn different things about the different women's 
communities or lesbian communities across the country? Did they 
seem similar or different to you?  
Rose:  Felt really similar to me. I don't know. That's— 
Neeley:  A good question.  
Rose:  I think the energy was just so high at that time. For me, this is really 
the late ‘70's and it was at its peak. They were so happy to have us 
and take us into their homes and just a lot of appreciation for body 
types, that was a big deal to see bodies that they could relate to on 
the stage and women hugging each other, loving each other on 
stage and making these overt statements. It was just a really 
positive experience, I think, all the way around and—  
Long:  Was there one particular performance that you recall during that 
time period?  
Rose:  Well, I remember performing in New York, at Hunter College, 
because my family got to come and my cousins, my aunts, 
everybody. The entire family and I think back on it and I think, 
God, what did they think? Because, we were hairy. We had hair 
under our arms. We had hairy legs. We were just so— 
Neeley:  And  our audience.  
Rose:  And  our audience. Oh, we were so out there. In fact, some of the 
statements that people have made. Lyn's grandmother said— do 
you remember what your grandmother said about— “It's nice that 
all these homely women have some place to go.” [laughs]   
Neeley: To go, yeah.  
Rose:  And, then in Ukiah, one of the reviews said, “It's hard to get past all 
that hair to see what was going on,” or something. So, we really 
pushed the envelope. We totally were out there— 
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  There was my family. I  think there must have been ten of them 
sitting in the audience but they just were so proud and nobody said 
a word about the politics or anything, they just— oh, you dance so 
beautifully, that kind of thing.   
Raiskin:  What's interesting about that is that you were out there to the 
extent that, that is what bodies look like.  
Rose:  Exactly.  
Raiskin:  And, nobody has that experience of watching dancing bodies on 
stage.  
Neeley:  Right.  
Rose:  It was really new for people and yet so familiar, so real.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  I think that's why the response was what it was because  we were 
really reflecting back something.  
Raiskin:  And, plus if you watch ballet, it's the heterosexual romance is the 
center of all of that— 
Rose:  Yeah, right.  
Raiskin:  And, to see something different must have been dramatic for 
people.  
Rose:  Yeah, right. Yeah, we lifted each other. We held each other. We did 
a lot of physical contact with each other.  
Long:  Did the dancing become difficult in any way over time?  
Rose:  You mean physically?  
Long:  Physically, yeah.   
Rose:  Well, I left when I turned thirty, so I continued to dance and it's 
really difficult now but Lyn stayed longer.  
Neeley:  We went through stages, so Laurel Near's older sister, Holly and 
her older sister Timothy, was in the National Theater of the Deaf. 
They always have one hearing person a year, so she was able to do 
that so she learned sign language and we wrote a grant to get her to 
come, so for a while we infused sign language into our dances. 
There would  be a mixture and they just naturally go together, so 
we'd expand. There was a, “If I were I” [signs] and we'd expand the 
sign into group shapes.  That was an element and then when we 
were here, we all took— well, many of us— 
Rose:  Kung Fu, yeah.  
Neeley:  Kung Fu, and Chuan  Fa Kung Fu and so Krissy  and I had a duet 
where it's in the dark and she's sitting on top of me and she kind of 
comes down. You can't really tell what's going on but it's two 
bodies and it's one body and all of a sudden it gets two and then 
chah! We do a whole Kung Fu piece and it talks about the Wushu 
and how they were— that's when we started to get political. The 
Wushu were there to take from the rich and give to the poor to 
protect the poor people and it was a poem going on behind it.  
Rose:  That's the other thing we incorporated, so there was sign language. 
There was Kung Fu, besides dance and also theater. We did a lot— 
Neeley:  Yes.  
Rose:  —with words. We used poetry, like Marge Piercy’s  poetry.  
Neeley:  Dialogue.  
Rose:  Dialogue, and that was different for— dance at that time did not 
really bring voice in so that also made the content a little bit more 
accessible than just pure modern dance and I think that's a way that 
we as dancers expanded so that we weren't just moving in a  sense.  
Neeley:  Yeah, but the moving— besides the Kung Fu and the sign 
language, we took ballet. I don't know every day, but three days a 
week, so that was the nuts and bolts of our bodies, keeping them in 
shape, but we had some jazz music, so we choreographed together. 
We would go to the bars and have a few drinks and then just dance 
on the floor and come up with a lot of our movements from 
dancing together.  
Rose:  We got kicked out of some bars because we were a little too wild 
and free and we didn't obey the lesbian rules. This is another way 
that we didn't fit in, because  we didn't honor the butch-femme code 
and it was not welcome at times.  
Neeley:  And, we weren't trying to be— 
Rose:  Yeah. We were wild. We were just kind of— 
Raiskin:  And, where were you dancing? What bars were you dancing in?  
Rose:  That bar was in Buffalo where we got kicked out.  
Raiskin:  Oh.   
Neeley:  On tour, we would go to— 
Rose:  But, here we danced at The Riv Room, if you remember The Riv 
Room? Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And, you think that butch -femme sensibility was different and 
Buffalo's sort of famous for, there's a history of that.  
Rose:  I didn't know that and I went to undergraduate school there but I 
was straight then.  
Raiskin:  I read a good book about the butch-femme community in Buffalo.  
Rose:  Oh, yeah.  
Raiskin:  But, is Eugene— did you find that different in Eugene or was it a 
similar sensibility?  
Rose:  No, I think— not in the bars. It was fine in the bars but I think in 
the Eugene women's community, we still struggled with the 
political correctness and that is one version of it. I don't think it was 
as strong with the butch-femme thing here, but there was definitely 
the political lines and so on the one hand, the women's community 
really, really  embraced us, supported us, and helped us in 
tremendous ways and also expected a lot from us to tow a line in a 
sense.  
Neeley:  Because  we were public.  
Rose:  We were public, yeah.   
Neeley:  But, I think we always felt a little outside of the women's 
community, because  we didn't come in as lesbians. We grew with 
the community but because we spent so much time with each other 
developing our material and stuff, I don't know. We just never 
really— we always felt a little outside of it kind of.   
Rose:  That's, again, the wallflower word is so appropriate because  we 
were always outsiders no matter where. Whether it was the dance 
world, the women's community, the straight  community, the 
political community. There was a lot of ways we couldn't even 
agree politically because we started all growing in different 
directions.  
Neeley:  But, there was an “awe”  between us. I think we were in awe of the 
women's community, women in the community and we took them 
seriously and the feedback seriously and I think in the same time 
there was a— we had a party once and  some of the major women in 
the women's community came dressed as Wallflowers. They had 
their scarves and each one was one of us and so there was a 
distance but a— 
Rose:  An “awe,” yeah.  
Neeley:  A strong connection.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What were some of  the lines that you felt that you got push-back 
from that if you crossed over it?   
Neeley:  In the dance?  
Raiskin:  Yeah. When you got negative feedback or— 
Neeley:  Oh, negative?  
Raiskin:  Yeah, what was it about?  
Neeley:  I can't remember. It was more from as we started to go from 
feminism to left wing politics, I think. It was from women in 
Mother Kali’s  from Marilyn. Her wife  [points to Linda].  
Rose:  We were not together then but, yeah. She's now my wife and you'll 
be meeting with her shortly.  
Neeley:  I can't remember specifically.  
Rose:  Yeah, we had to— I think it was class issues and really sort of 
own— what party, what side, you're on. We were, I think, at that 
point, we were still finding our voice and our politics in a lot of 
ways and— 
Neeley:  And, our sexuality.  
Rose:  And, our sexuality, everything, and for me, personally, I really 
liked the creative process a lot. I don't want the outside putting it 
on, so I always felt a kind of rebellion against that but I think that's 
what we were up against, it's just getting what we were supposed 
to be saying and also coming to some agreement as a collective, 
which was really challenging.   
Neeley:  Yeah, which kind of grew. That was a seed of how we grew apart 
eventually— 
Rose: Right, right.  
Neeley:  Because, I think, we were the opposite. We're the closest now but 
we were the opposite ends of that, because  I always felt fed by the 
feedback and wanted to know more about, what are we saying? 
And, I went into more of the left wing politics, wholeheartedly and 
then started incorporating that in our dances but— yeah, I don't 
know. It began to change.  
Rose:  Right, and I moved more in the spiritual direction, away from the 
political and was looking at things in a very different light.  
Neeley:  But, you're right, our dances at the beginning were just so more 
organic. The Taro piece  and characters of the Taro. You were— 
Rose:  Judgment.  
Neeley:  Judgment. I was the fool. No, I was the queen of hearts, I think, or 
whatever. No, Laurel was the fool. Anyway— 
Rose:  You were the empress.  
Neeley:  Krissy  was the queen of— 
Rose:  You were the empress.  
Neeley:  No, no. Alex was the empress.  
Rose:  You were the fool. Laurel was the magician.   
Neeley:  Oh, yeah. I was the fool. Okay, right. I  was the fool, still the fool  
[laughs].  
Rose:  Lyn was standing on top of a— 
Neeley:  I climbed a ladder.  
Rose:  Twenty  foot ladder.  
Neeley:  To these poles up here.  
Rose:  And, just all of a sudden the ladder started going like that and Lyn 
was like, oh my God— 
Neeley:  I was swinging around.  
Rose:  And, we're all like, aaaaaa h [sings].  
Neeley:  Like, the fool jumping off the cliff.  
Rose:  Yeah, it was amazing.  
Neeley:  And, Laurel was the magician. She had glitter in her hand and the 
light would focus on one and we'd talk about that Tarot character 
and there was a little kind of— Laurel was against the wall like this 
and the light comes on her and she goes, “pyew” [gestures], like 
that and this glare comes up and they talk about what the magician 
is and then we danced but all of our dances came from our lives 
because  we were doing the Tarot at that time with each other.  
Long:  Who did your costumes?   
Rose:  We did.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  We did everything and we worked with a woman for a while who 
was our musician, who did live music with us, Suse Millemann, 
and she was wonderful so we toured with her for a number of 
years as well, and she became our sixth.  
Neeley:  Yeah. There's a review in The Village Voice  and it says— because  
when we were on tour, we had this chest and we'd open it up and 
that's where our costumes were and they were all wrinkled and 
everything and it said, “The Rag Tag Dance Company,” with— you 
know, they'd open their chest and rags come out and it turns into 
this dance.  
Rose:  Right, right, right.  
Neeley:  But, it was right— oh, so one of our costumes, I think, Krissy— did 
you go? To the Goodwill, and they found these swimming suits 
that were white, they were the old fashioned, they look like girdles 
kind of, and then they had these little plaid skirts on them and so 
that was— and, then we had— so we got five of those. I don't know 
they had five.  
Rose:  There happened to be five of the same swimsuits— 
Neeley:  And, they fit us.  
Rose:  These are like 1950s swimsuits.   
Neeley:  And, so we had— what do you call these? Bannner  across— 
Rose:  A banner. A banner that we— 
Neeley:  Misrepresented — 
Rose:  Mistaken.  
Neeley:  Misunderstood.  
Rose:  Misunderstood. Mis-something else and we were like this beauty 
pageant that was— 
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  Totally gone awry. Yes.  
Neeley:  So, that dance came out of the costumes.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Neeley:  But, the costumes that we told you about, we had them for a 
number of dances. It was stretched. The see through kind of stretch 
blue material and it could come up to here, it could go down here, 
but it came because I had a baggy pair of pants and I had my arms 
down my pants. We were I think at the University of Oregon, and 
we were just kind of bored and tired or something and I started 
going like this and they said “Oh, wow, you got these beautiful 
lines from your crotch going out.”  
Rose:  Right, right.   
Neeley:  Laurel and I sat and made a bigger version of those and we used 
them for everything. The elastic would be coming out and yeah.  
Rose:  We were very frugal, so we did it all, or Goodwill, basically.  
Raiskin:  Did you have relationships with other dance troupes around the 
country?  
Rose:  Yeah, we did. We did have some. I'm trying to remember. It's one 
of the groups that we started connecting with in San Francisco was 
Tumbleweed. Were you a part of that? In the very beginning. They 
were also kind of a group that was a little out in left field, but they 
were just much more physical and not necessarily theater.  
Neeley:  But, this is— we met Sweet Honey in the Rock, because  we 
performed in Washington D.C.  
Rose:  Right.  
Neeley:  They came to our concert because  there was five of them and they 
were singing a  cappella, and so they invited us to their house after 
the performance, so we go to go to— we, didn't know who they 
were.  
Rose:  That's amazing.  
Neeley:  And, we went down to the basement and here's Nancy Reagan?  
Rose:  Bernice.   
Neeley:  Bernice Reagan. Nancy. Bernice, and she starts talking in this low 
voice and we start exchanging political art stories and they sang for 
us in a  cappella and we're— 
Rose:  It was so powerful.  
Neeley: These little white girls. It was really amazing.  
Rose:  There were four— actually— 
Neeley:  Echoed and— 
Rose:  At that point, there were four of them and they sat like this close 
around the table and they just sang into each other's mouths. It was 
so beautiful. So powerful.  
Neeley:  When they talked it was just stillness. Deep and rich, really nice.  
Rose:  The thing I remember Bernice saying was, this was one of the 
arguments at the time, whether you needed to label yourself or not 
and how do you label yourself and she said, “I believe you have to 
label yourself. You can have twenty  things on your label but you 
have to label yourself.” And I didn't think that at the time but I was 
like, Okay, that's interesting. But, yeah and she has this very long 
political history so she is something.  
Neeley:  I don't remember that but the one thing I took away from that was, 
I dress for myself first, other women second and men last.  
Rose:  Yeah.   
Raiskin:  And, about the conflicts within your group, how did you handle 
that?  
Neeley:  We were young. There was no therapy in that day and age, it was 
pretty bad. We didn't really handle it very well. A lot of fighting.  
Long:  What year are we at right now?  
Rose:  Well, so the group started in ‘75, I left in ‘79, and Lyn and the 
group— Lyn left in ‘80— 
Neeley:  Eighty-three.  
Rose:  Eighty-three. 
Neeley:  Or, four, yeah.  
Rose:  And, I think the group kind of folded around that time.  
Neeley:  Split.  
Rose:  Yeah, it split.  
Raiskin:  But, why did you leave when you left?  
Rose:  Me? 
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]  
Rose:  I left. I was turning thirty  and I felt like a couple of things. I didn't 
feel like I could continue living hand-to-mouth like that. It was 
really a hard life and I also didn't want to be in Eugene anymore. I 
wanted  to be in a city. One of the things that was hard for me was  
being a performer where our lives are public and I'm kind of a 
private person and I'd go into the store and people would talk to 
me as if they really knew me and I just felt really exposed. So that. 
And then the third part was I felt like we were struggling so hard 
in the collective that it was like a power struggle at that point and it 
didn't feel like a win-win situation.  
 Somebody was going to win and somebody was going to lose, so 
we didn't really know how to— at that point, I didn't feel like we 
knew how to find middle ground. We were really all kind of gone 
like that, so the work was not fun anymore and it felt more 
destructive and it didn't feel as creative. That's why, for me.  
Neeley:  It definitely got more heated, the arguments, as it went along and 
there was a young girl, Pammy, at the time and we had the stance 
that I was talking about, “If I were I” with the sign language, that 
moved into dance, and at the end we come back together and  we 
do a— we're all doing different things that come out, it's like a still 
life that's moving and in one, growing is one of the signs and Krissy  
has her hand here and Pammy— or, no, Pammy has her hand here 
and Krissy's growing from her hand like this and then like that and 
Krissy  and Pammy had slept together and so there was that 
dynamic, too, because there was some sexual tension and the 
fighting came out of that when it didn't go right, which— there's 
five of us.  
 Pammy was furious. She's from the south, from Louisville. Furious, 
this horrible temper, so she has these long fingernails and she's  
going like this to Krissy  and Krissy  had scratches on her and what 
could she do? She has to perform, so it got like that, and we come 
to place and purses would  be throwing into the cars and it was 
intense. And, so what Linda's saying is it really did get like that.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you see the work that you did at that time, having influence on 
other dance companies and can you talk about that a little bit?  
Neeley:  Yes. To this day, you'll go in and somebody will come up— and 
Wallflower will come up and people have our posters in there 
because what Linda was saying, that we were— our bodies, the 
way we combined different elements into the dancing and that it 
came from our lives. All of those things were kind of new at that 
time and so a lot of young women who had wanted to be dancers, I 
think it was eye opening for many, many women, clear through. 
Yeah, I think we did have a— we were riding a wave, and it was 
just serendipitous.   
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Are there dance companies that you can see now? That they're 
doing your work or continuing your work?  
Neeley:  Oh. 
Raiskin:  Or, have things changed in different ways?  
Neeley:  No, I don't think they were doing our work but—  
Rose:  It's hard but, yeah. I don't really follow dance companies anymore 
so actually I don't know what's out there but I think we did offer 
something to the dance world in some ways that I think impacted 
them but I couldn't say exactly who or  how.  
Neeley:  Yeah, I don't know about the dance world.  
Rose:  I know other women though, like Lyn was saying. When I came 
back here to Eugene, four years ago, a couple of different women 
came up to me after and we were talking and said that they still 
remember the first time that they saw us on stage and what a 
powerful thing that was and one of them was a dancer and she said 
she had moved away from dance because  it was so foreign to her in 
a lot of ways and seeing us really helped her come back to be able 
to dance and anyway, it was very moving to hear the kind of 
impact, I think, that we did have.  
Neeley:  Margaret Bartlett, our therapist’s assistant, who sets up the 
appointments, I just found out had seen us and is still dancing 
today because of us, she  said.  
Rose:  Margaret is dancing?  
Neeley:  No, not Margaret, her assistant.  
Rose:  Her assistant.  
Neeley:  Yeah, she has Ten Tiny Dances.  
Rose:  Oh.  
Neeley:  It's here. I don't know. Anyway, yeah.  
Raiskin:  So, what years was Wallflower, again?  
Neeley:  Seventy-five and then in ‘74, we were on the— 
Rose:  Eighty-four. 
Neeley:  I mean ‘84. We had moved to Boston and I quit just as the group at 
the same time wanted to go to San Francisco, so that was ‘84 and 
then there was a whole lawsuit about the name because really that 
was the only thing of value that we had was the name that we built 
up and they had to change their name to Dance Brigade in the Bay 
Area, so— 
Rose:  Because the group split, so the two groups had to drop the name 
Wallflower Order and each group took a different name.  
Raiskin:  So, the Dance Brigade were, anybody from your original group?  
Rose:  Yeah, Krissy  and then Nina, who joined our group about three 
years into the life of Wallflower, were Dance Brigade and then two 
other women that were in  Wallflower Order, formed the East Coast 
company, which was Crows Feet.  
Neeley:  But, Nina died, so Krissy's the one that's left and she's carrying it 
on. They do new things. People know about the Dance Brigade.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Long:  So, Linda, when you left, you left first?   
Rose:  Yeah.  
Long:  What did you do after that?  
Rose:  I moved down to San Francisco and I worked with the elderly for a 
few years and then I decided to go back to school for a degree and I 
went back to New York, to Hunter College,  and did a degree in 
social work and dance therapy, and then I came back to San 
Francisco and worked for a lot of years as a therapist in private 
practice and danced on the side and I lived there for thirty  years 
and then I moved back here in 2014. I retired and moved here.  
Long:  Why did you come back to Eugene?  
Rose:  Well, that's interesting, because  from about 2005, my wife now, 
Marilyn, who is Mother Kali's founder, she and I would come 
down every summer for about ten years or so just to visit friends 
and to be here, because  we really love Eugene, especially in the 
summertime, and we bought a— so, actually, in 2005, we formed a 
reunion for the Wallflower and all the community that was 
happening called WOW Now. We produced it and so Wallflower, 
those of us that could get together, we did a couple of pieces. The 
musicians, a lot of the lesbian musicians played. It was really a 
great gathering of the lesbian women's community from the 
heyday of the ‘70s. This was in 2005 at The WOW Hall and so 
during that time, Marylyn and I bought a house, thinking that we 
might retire here. It was the only place that we could decide upon,  
agree upon together. And, then we rented it for about ten years and 
eventually moved here in 2014.  
Raiskin:  Have you stayed here the whole time?  
Neeley:  No, no. When I split from Wallflower, I moved to New York and 
joined a Communist Party that's run by women, really. They call it 
the Matriarch, and that party is separated from  the Socialist 
Worker's party, sixty, fifty, years ago, and one of the issues was the 
lesbian and gay issue because the Social Worker part of it was so 
poor on that. So, we have a lot of lesbian and transgender, now 
non-binary. There's a lot of growing that takes place in that party 
around abuse now, the #MeToo movement. Trying to, for old 
people, older people to change their view about, that you always go 
with the victim. There's a lot of growth pains. Anyway, it was very 
appealing to me and so I moved to New York and worked with, it's 
called Workers World, until two years ago. Well, I still am in the 
Party but— so, right after it so I guess I've been in the Party thirty-
eight  years.  
 And, then I moved back to Oregon because I'm from here and after 
I became a school teacher in science. I had a lot of credits and I 
enjoyed it. I mean, I enjoyed the science, not the teaching so much. I 
always knew I would come back here when I retired, so I was 
going to move here because Linda was here in Eugene but decided 
to move to Portland two years ago and so I started a little branch of 
Workers World in Portland, now with very, very young people. 
Two gay men, a trans person and it's just really— I felt the other  
day, I'm doing what I want to do. But before when I was in New 
York, I wasn't really filling the capacity that I thought I had, but 
when I came to Portland, everything that I had ever learned was 
coming into play and it still, it's challenging and it's very fulfilling 
so it's very satisfying, yeah.  
Rose:  Yeah. I wanted to say what I'm doing now here, because— 
Neeley:  Oh, yeah. It's the opposite.  
Rose:  We're always sort of comparing notes. We're doing the same thing 
but in totally different fields and directions, so I got really involved 
in Buddhist meditation forty  years ago, even when I was living 
here and especially in San Francisco, was part of a Sangha 
community with a teacher. And then when I moved here with 
Marilyn, there was not a community, so we formed a community 
with some other people and I've become one of the leaders and so 
I'm teaching the Dharma and mediation sessions and I never 
thought I'd be doing that but it's really wonderful and we just 
started a Q-Sangha for the LGBTQIA community here, so that's 
really exciting.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  And, yeah so I feel like we're watching our community grow as 
Lyn is watching her community grow and we're both sort of on 
these community building kind of tracks in very different— 
Neeley:  The opposite.   
Rose:  Areas.  
Neeley:  But, we're real connected though in that way.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Well, it sounds like it's the seeds of what separated  the dance has 
sort of evolved into the work that you're doing.  
Rose:  Yeah. Absolutely.  
Raiskin:  The materialist, the spiritual and— 
Rose:  Absolutely.  
Neeley:  And, the lessons that we learned from that era were bringing to a 
new generation, really. The collective work, working together.  
Rose:  Yeah, I have to say that being a part of a collective, as hard as it 
was, we learned so much about communication and negotiation 
and then becoming a therapist. I was a group therapist, a couple's 
therapist. I was like, all of that became part of the tool box. 
Sometimes I'm amazed at how little people understand how to 
work together.  
Neeley:  I was just going to say that same thing because I became a school 
teacher so this was in the ‘90s and the young people coming in, 
were clueless about working together. I mean, part of it is youth 
but it was a generational thing and I realized how much I had 
learned about working collectively, and could offer that.   
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you work with young people now, or teach in any ways, dance, 
or politics with younger people now.  
Neeley:  Yeah, definitely. Everybody in our Workers World group in 
Portland is in their twenties. Some are approaching thirty  but we 
have two high school students that one is a Yemen woman and 
she's a junior in high school and this young man who just 
graduated from high school, so yeah and I feel like I've had thirty-
five years of experience with Marxism and working in a Party and 
building and doing outreach and doing demonstrations, but they're 
all learning a lot from it. They really respect— it's amazing that 
they are coming into— they're coming into this branch, or into the 
whole party really— young people are just— it's expanding so 
much—with a tremendous knowledge of Marxism, that I didn't 
have but they have things online where they read. They are 
teaching me about Marxism but in terms of party-building, yeah, I 
feel like— and just having taught and everything, relating young 
people isn't knew to me so it's great. That's why I say, I feel like I'm 
bringing all of my life experience into building this little branch in 
Portland. And, it's really fun. They're young and exciting and the 
things that the  Party's learning as whole— because  we were, for a 
while, older people. We would look around and our numbers were 
dwindling as the— it was a reflection of the society, the reactionary 
parts of the society.   
 Everyone had gray hair and then all of a sudden,  bam! Four years 
ago, people of color, young people were coming in. Trans, non-
binary, all this new cis-males, all this new language coming in and 
then every time, like what I was saying, the #MeToo  Movement. 
The older people are going, whoa, whoa!  Learning new stuff and 
having to bend and change, it's a great combination.  
Raiskin:  And, it's being reflected in the dance in any kind of— 
Neeley:  In dance?  
Raiskin:  In any— yeah, do you see it reflecting in any kind of dance spaces, 
this kind of new understanding of things?  
Neeley:  I'm with Linda, I don't really go to dances anymore. It's not a part 
of my life.  
Rose:  I don't really go to dance performances but there's this form of 
dance: Contact Improv. I don't know if either of you are familiar 
with it but it's very popular, even here in Eugene and so there's a 
community that does Contact Dance and one of the members of our 
Sangha, our meditation group, is really active in it so I kind of get 
to see what's going on a little bit and trans is definitely happening 
in there so I'm very— I think it's just all over the place and so why 
wouldn't it be in the dance world? And, actually watching dance 
competitions programs on television— 
Neeley:  Oh, yeah.   
Rose:  —which is one of my things. I was watching this  male duet, two 
men dancing together in a loving way and I was like, “This never 
would've happened before.” It was really very sweet and beautiful 
and there they were on national TV and the judges were 
commenting on, “Wow, we've never seen anything like this 
before.” So it's happening.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Is there some aspect of Wallflower or your lives in Eugene or 
elsewhere that we haven't asked that we should know about?  
Neeley:  That's a good question.  
Rose:  I don't know if there's a question but I wanted to just make this 
comment that coming back here at this stage of my life, so I'm sixty-
nine  now and I have such fond memories of being here as a twenty-
something-year-old and sitting in the river park area, doing Taro 
readings with the Wallflowers and coming of age and now kind of 
coming to age, there's something so interesting about these two 
juxtapositions and I have just such a sweet feeling about it here. I 
think that my heart just got opened here in Eugene in ways that it 
can't any place else. There's something about the softness of 
Eugene— 
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  I think that really promotes it and allows for it.   
Raiskin:  Do you have any thoughts about aging as lesbians?  
Rose:  Wow. I have a lot of thoughts about aging. I mean, I was just saying 
to Lyn on the way over here, eighty-one is the age that my mother 
and my father and my grandmother died so I think, Okay, that 
gives me twelve  years, and I'm losing a lot of memory so I start to 
think, Okay, I don't have children, what's going to happen? I worry 
a lot about that and I gave Marilyn permission, I said, “If my 
memory goes, you can put me in a memory care and I'm okay with 
that.”  But I just— I don't know. I worry about how a lot of us are 
going to deal with  this kind of loss of ability and without children, 
many of us, without the kind of— I think there's community in a lot 
of ways but the community doesn't always feel age-combined. 
We're either all old or whatever, unless you have children and 
family so I don't know.  
Neeley:  Yeah, there's that. I think that's true but I wanted to just say how I 
felt. I think we both agreed, when we came to your first meeting 
here and all these old women with help walking and leaning on 
each other and coming up the stairs and in this room of lesbians, it 
was fantastic and it just made me think, I love lesbians, they're 
ageless in a certain way. Not to take away, because  what you're 
saying is so true, but just all my lesbian friends are so young at 
heart still. I think just— and they meet life by themselves and it's 
just in a strong way, so there is that. You know?  
Rose:  Right. Yeah, that was a great meeting, it was really—  
Raiskin:  There was a lot of energy there.  
Neeley:  Celebratory. Yep.  
Rose:  And, hard to recognize faces.  I'm just looking around and going, do 
I know you? I don't remember. because  I haven't been here all those 
years in between so— 
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  A lot of people hadn't seen each other in a long time.  
Neeley:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  But, the strength of the community, people have found their own 
ways in a lot of instances.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Long:  There's been some discussion about how successes in the struggles 
for equality has also meant a certain amount of assimilation and 
with that assimilation, the loss of a sense of community or battling 
together for something.  
Rose:  Yeah, it's interesting because  our Sangha, in the community— 
Marilyn and I are a part of it, very visible and we didn't really think 
we had to come out, we just thought it was understood but Justin, 
who is this young thirty-something year old who's part of the 
group said, “I think you guys need to come out and I think you 
need to lead an LGBTQIA class.” And we're like, “Really?”   
Neeley:  That was his idea.  
Rose:  That was his idea.  
Neeley:  Cool.  
Rose:  And, we both thought it was just so— of course we are but there is 
something that because we're part of the community, that people 
don't know necessarily and we don't look like lesbians necessarily. I 
mean, I don't know what they look like anymore but— so, it is 
interesting. There's some separation from this little ghetto 
community— 
Neeley:  That we had.  
Rose:  That we had that I think is different.  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  It's both good and also maybe there's a downside to it.  I don't 
know.  
Neeley:  It really was a nest for us, here. It was very safe and powerful. I 
guess in Workers World, there's a lot of lesbians and gay and non-
binary and everything but it is part of a wider community. It's the 
whole society there in a nutshell but lesbian, gay, LGBTQ are 
celebrated and given the first to be able to talk and we have a 
caucus of our own and elevated in that way and people take 
leadership from women especially and— 
Rose:  Yeah.   
Neeley:  So, that's really great.  
Raiskin:  We've been asking people to think about these interviews being 
looked at by very young people or people in twenty  years. Is there 
anything that you would say specifically to a young person now, 
given all of your experience that you've had?  
Neeley:  Keep learning.  Yeah. It's easy when you're young to think you have 
the answer to things and that you'll see as you go along, you might 
have the answer for a while but that answer will change and if you 
don't change with it, you're screwed, so— 
Raiskin:  And, the questions change.  
Neeley:  Yes. Right, yeah in ways that you cannot predict. You know?  Be 
flexible, because  otherwise you age faster. Yeah.  
Rose:  I don't think I have anything that I can think of but it's an 
interesting question. It's even interesting just to think about young 
people looking at this. I think, why would they be interested? Isn't 
that— that's interesting in itself.  I had a client in my therapy work 
who was an older lesbian, so she came out in  the ‘30s, ‘40s, and she 
would talk about her experiences in New York going into 
restaurants, bars, with a man that she knew, go into the bathroom, 
change her clothes, and walk out and just that whole way of what 
the life was like then and I was so fascinated by it. Just that level of 
subterfuge, of having to really hide and so I think, yeah, of course 
young people would want to know this but it's hard to remember 
that sometimes.   
Neeley:  Yeah. I just— 
Rose:  We're just part of a stream, I think of all these changes.  
Neeley:  But, yeah when you look back, because Leslie Feinberg, wrote Stone 
Butch Blues, she's a friend of mine, she was in the Party and I just 
started reading it again and it was that same thing. How the cops 
would come in, you had to have three pairs, three pieces of clothing 
that were of your sex, and if you didn't you were beat up and it was 
way different. And, that wasn't that long ago, so you just look back 
and things are so different.  
Raiskin:  I think it's sweet you've come back to retire and work back in 
Oregon.  
Neeley:  Isn't it? Yeah, it feel so right.  
Raiskin:  And, be close to each other again, right?  
Neeley:  Yeah.  
Rose:  It's really— it's great.  
Neeley:  Yeah, we see each other once every month or two.  
Rose:  Yeah.  
Long:  Well, thank you very much.  
Rose: Thank you.  
Neeley:  Thank you,  great questions. Yeah you did a nice  job.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  