Scanlon:  Okay. But in general I could look at somewhere around where you 
are.  
Long: Yeah.  
Scanlon:  As opposed to gazing off into space.  
Long: Yeah. Okay. This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University 
Archives. This is an oral history interview with Maura  Scanlon on 
July 23, 2018 taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives and associate professor Judith Raiskin  of the  
UO Department of Women, Gender and Sexuality Studies. Maura, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project and 
that you give your permission for the university to preserve and 
make available you recorded and transcribed interview.  
Scanlon:  I do.  
Long: Thank you. Okay. Shall we begin with the first question then. Can 
you please just tell us where you were born, where you grew up 
and something about your early background.  
Scanlon:  I was born in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, but at age two, I moved to 
Denver, Colorado, and then I went to college in Fort Collins, 
Colorado in 1967. And then, I don't know when it was maybe 1974 
or six that I came out as a lesbian and there were— Fort Collins was 
the college was like an agricultural veterinary university, the state 
university. And so it was kind of conservative and we were, gosh, 
we felt like we were the first lesbians in the world or something. 
We put an ad in the paper to get other lesbians to come and have a 
potluck with us. And we got all six of them and we figured that 
was it. We were  kind of naive about— there might be some that 
might not just be responding to ads like that. But anyway, it was a 
small group and we were really close.  
 But at one point I wanted to move and so I decided that— Eugene 
we'd heard was like, "Wow, that was the place to be if you were a 
lesbian." So, I went and a friend, one of the women in the circle 
came with me and then a few months later, two, three, four, they  
ended up to be like most of us all ended up in Eugene, about six of 
us, I guess.  
Raiskin: Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Can I back up just one moment just to ask 
you what it was like for you to come out when you did, how old 
you were, how your family was with you.  
Scanlon:  Okay, let's see. I was probably twenty-six. Twenty-four, twenty-six. 
And let's see, how did that happen? I decided I was going to leave. 
I'd been with this group, I'd been active in like Vietnam protests 
and was with the group that said, "Oh, let's live on community land 
sometime." This was a heterosexual group. And a lot of us met each 
other through this woman  named Bonnie Germaine, who had a 
bookstore. That was the center of the planning. And one plan was 
to buy land and she did that. And I went, I said, "yeah, I'll go with 
you." And so I went to Montana, but as I was getting ready to go, 
there were these two women who said, as members of NOW, 
which we were, the National Organization for Women, we ought to 
support our lesbian sisters by going to a lesbian bar, so we’re  going 
to go in Denver. It was like a field trip. And turned out that the 
women who were pushing for this are both married women who 
were really interested in each other.  
 And so a group of us went, and I got so nervous I was going to 
meet people there. And this was in Denver and it was under a 
viaduct and it was in a really dark part of town. Underneath the 
bridge was the “Macho Club” in big letters with men hanging out 
outside with their white T-shirts rolled up and stuff. And my  
friends weren't there, so I went in and it was too scary. I came back 
out. It was just scary to see, I don't know. Okay. I went in and then 
all the women at the bar turned their head to see me and then they, 
and I just like, oh my gosh, it just felt like, they looked and it felt 
like men at a bar and I backed up and went out into the parking lot 
and then I was locked out of my car. I left my keys in my car 
because I was so nervous. Luckily this wonderful tall woman 
showed up and helped me get into the car and she was just 
wonderful.  
 And so the other people came and we danced and we love— I 
loved dancing there because it felt like I wasn't concerned about 
what anybody thought about me because I wasn't a lesbian and 
these were lesbians so I could just totally relax. And it was really 
fun. And so the next day I'm getting ready to leave to go to this 
land in Montana and I'm back in Fort Collins to say goodbye to 
people. And I tell this one friend what happened and how I met 
this woman who broke into the car for me and I said she was a 
forest service worker and all of a sudden she said, "Was her name 
Kathy?" And I go, yes. And you said, "Oh, well, she and I have been 
in kind of a relationship" and it was like, what? Later in the day I 
find myself with Mary kissing and it's like I really felt like I was 
walking above the ground. My feet were not touching the ground 
as I walked around. So that was my coming out story and my 
parents did not know about it for quite a while.   
 Okay. I moved to Oregon. Anyway, later I moved to Oregon and  it 
was a secret that my parents wouldn't know because I didn't know 
how they would deal with it. Irish  Catholic family.  My parents 
were— well, I had trained them a bit with my Vietnam protests so 
that they were against the war by then and they were liberal people 
eventually. I mean they were, I guess, but I didn't know for  sure. 
When I did finally come out to them, my dad's— you know, they 
said, "Oh, well, oh well," you know, whatever. And then later my 
dad said "At first I thought you would just be so lonely, but I guess 
it's not any different than any of my  maiden aunts. They had a 
pretty happy life and so I guess you'll be all right." He never 
crossed his mind that I would have a relationship or love or 
support or community, none of that.  
 Just that I would be one of these lonely people that sit in a bar or 
something, I don't  know. So that was the reaction, but they got 
more relaxed. They all were real friendly with my friends. And 
when my mom  once went with us in Eugene to a lesbian gathering 
and she was in heaven. Everyone was coming over to meet her and 
everything and she said, "you're so lucky you have so many good 
friends in your life." Because she'd always been very asocial and so 
it was just neat. Sounds good.  
Raiskin: How did you find Eugene when you first came? What was it like 
from your perspective?  
Scanlon:  First thing I noticed that women were walking hand in hand. I said, 
"Wow, look at that."   
Raiskin: What year was it that you came?  
Scanlon:  I came in ‘76. Seventy-five or ‘76, I think it was. I was pretty much 
thinking it was going to be just easy. My friend and I met, decided 
now how are we going to actually meet some of these women that 
we see walking around looking so relaxed and so accepted in the 
community. And so we went to a NOW meeting because that was 
what we are familiar with and we met these two women who are 
still good friends and that was the beginning. And then we'd start 
going to some things that were advertised for women, including— 
this was shortly after I came.  
Well, before I tell you about that talent show that I went to, then I 
got a shock and realized this wasn't exactly paradise and not 
everybody in Eugene was open to gays and lesbians because I was 
with someone that had come out with me. We had been lovers and 
then we broke up, but we were still friends, which is my sort of 
way it all often or mostly happens. Dottie  and I came out and then 
we were in a restaurant and she was sad about the breakup and she 
was planning to go back to Colorado and we were talking and I 
had my hands on her hands across the table as I was comforting 
her. And this was in— when de Frisco's was a restaurant in the 
Atrium Building downtown by the new library.  
 So the manager came up and said, "Ladies, if you want to hold 
hands, this is not the place for you." And, oh my God, we were so 
shocked. I mean, I was speechless. And Dobie said, she wished she 
still had wine in her glass so she could throw it at him or something  
or that we hadn't already paid so we could leave without paying. I 
don't know. We were just like what? And he said, "You’ll  have to 
leave." And so we left and I just thought, Wow, what I did feel was, 
wow, what if someone kicked me out of the restaurant because like 
the color of my skin or something I could not change or hide. And 
then I thought I'd start getting answers, oh, that is why people 
might want to hide who they are because they don't get kicked out 
or whatever. It was just shocking to me because I didn't expect it to 
happen there. I didn't even expect it to happen, which is funny— 
it's kind of funny, anyway.  
Long: What kind of restaurant was that?  
Scanlon:  Well, I don't know how you'd describe it. They had some pool 
tables. They had a bar and some tables. What happened is a few 
days  later, I was at this talent show, a lesbian talent show and it 
was in the WOW  Hall I think, downstairs. And before things were 
happening or in between, I met some women, I was talking to them 
and I brought up that that had happened. And they said, they’d  
heard that something similar happened to someone they knew or 
whatever. Then when— I remember it was Sally Sheklow— 
Raiskin: Sheklow. 
Scanlon:  Sheklow who stood up and said, "There’s  a woman over here who 
wants to tell you her story" and pointed at me. And I was like, 
"Yikes, I don't even know these people yet." I did get to know 
people, a lot of them, because I got up and told them  about it and  
they all said "We’re going to have to have  a zap. We're going to like 
go in there." I didn't know what a zap was, but just show up. They 
picked a night and they said— they  got gays and lesbians to come 
and just go in and be in the restaurant. So that was pretty exciting.  
Raiskin: And what was the purpose of that?  
Long:  Yeah, explain the zap. Was it like a sit in?  
Scanlon:  It was like a sit in, yeah. Only  we weren't just sitting, we were 
taking part. We were being in the restaurant whether they liked it 
or not and what could they do if we were all there and we'd make a 
statement and he'd have to— I don't know what he'd have to do, 
but we wanted some kind of confrontation and in the sense of we're 
not going to let you get away with this or something like that. To 
get attention to it maybe also. Maybe people would boycott it or 
protest. I don't know. So we all went in, I don't know, I  just, I went 
in and we just— and people were playing pool and kind of like, 
there were more of us than the other people.  
 It was pretty much wall to wall, it felt like. And I saw that waitress 
make a phone call and I saw the owner come in and he just went to 
the first woman standing by the door and he grabbed her by her 
shirt and he said "out of my restaurant." And he was going to 
physically move her out and everyone was going, "Whoa, Whoa, 
Whoa." And we said, "We want to talk to you." And he said, "Well, 
not in here." And so we went out to the Atrium because the 
entrance was within the Atrium and  that was this open area. And I  
remember sitting on this— all the people on the table, which fell 
over or broke or something as I recall. But anyway, so we talked to 
him and it was very interesting. First he was really defensive, said 
"I don't want my restaurant to be a gay restaurant. I get to have a 
kind of restaurant I  want."  
 And then anyway, after a while we said, "Let's talk when we're 
calmer, let's talk in a smaller group." Because there were like, a lot 
of people stayed in the restaurant but there were at least like maybe 
thirty  people and him. So it was hard for it to cool down. And so 
we agreed to meet with a smaller group. I got to be part of that and 
it was quite a way to get connected with people in the community. 
And some of the leaders of the group were connected to the MCC, 
Metropolitan Community Church, which was real— I don't know if 
it was exclusive, but really open to gays, a Christian Church. And 
so we met with him again and I remember really strongly some of 
the things that he said, it was interesting.  
 He was much more human the next time. He brought with him the 
owner of the Atrium as a manager who may have been a gay man, 
I'm not sure. But anyway, he was much cooler. And he said, "Well, 
I don't want my restaurant to be a gay restaurant." And we said, 
"well, it doesn't have to be, I mean, gay people go to the Excelsior 
and it hasn't become a gay restaurant." And he said, "Well, I'm 
thinking about opening up— We did say, "what kind of restaurant 
do you want?" And he said, "I want the college kids with money," 
kind of like the higher economic group of the university student or  
something—he had  this idea. I guess a person can try to do that. 
But anyway, he said, "Well, I'm thinking about putting up a dance 
floor and I couldn't handle it. I could handle women dancing 
together, but if there are men dancing here, I just couldn't handle 
it." 
 And so we said, "Well, you open up your dance floor and we'll 
come in if you'll get used to it or something like that." He never 
opened up a dance floor and then people stopped going. They 
boycotted. I guess we didn't know what else to do. I'm not sure, I 
guess we could have taken some legal action. I don't know if there 
was any legal support for that or not. We just stopped going I 
guess. Years later I went in with my mom was visiting and took her 
into the restaurant and the owner came over. He recognized me 
and I recognized him, just years later and he was very, you know, 
"How you doing? Can I get you something? Very—  
Long:  Accommodating.  
Scanlon:  He didn't want me to zap the place again. So that was the story of 
De Frisco's. That restaurant's not there anymore, but I think— well,  
anyway.  
Raiskin: Can you tell us something about the lesbian talent show at the 
WOW  Hall?  
Scanlon:  I think there were other talent shows and I  may be mushing them 
together in my memory, but Sally did belly dancing. That's what 
was amazing. I loved it. I love belly dancing anyway, and that was  
great. Her name was Hayfield then and they evolved to be a 
cabaret. And my  friend Mary, who was the one that was my first 
lover in Colorado, she came out and moved out here later, too. She 
was one of the organizers of it. And I remember a trapeze act. I 
remember a woman named Wanda, I think. Wanda? Yeah, who 
sang "Stormy Weather." And she may be the same person or not 
that was on a trapeze while she was doing it and ended up doing 
all these fancy things so that was pretty exciting. And it was set 
around with little tables and women  get dressed up in really neat 
ways. It was very fun. Very fun.  
Long: So at that time, were you working in Eugene or were you going to 
school?  
Scanlon:  When I first came here, I drove a school bus in Springfield and I 
worked in a fabric store. Then I decided I would go to get my 
graduate degree because with English  lit, you can't do a whole lot. 
So I got my degree at the university in library science, the last class 
before they canceled the program.  
Long: And that was ’78? 
Scanlon:  ‘78. 
Long: Mm-hmm [affirmative] 
Scanlon:  And then that didn't help a whole lot, still didn't get a job  as a 
librarian. But I did work in the Eugene  public library, every area 
except custodian and the office. I got to drive the bus, the  
bookmobile and everything. And later, I could tell you stories not 
this one. Worked in a Creswell School District as the media 
specialist in the elementary school with the young ones, which was 
kind of fun. But it was Creswell and it was conservative and it was 
during the second gay rights bill, I think that was in— going up for 
the vote.  
Long: The statewide measure?  
Scanlon:  Yeah. 
Raiskin: Measure 8, probably.  
Scanlon:  Probably. I'm not sure of the 8 or 9. I think it was the second one, so 
is probably eight. Anyway, it was around ‘90, ‘92. 
Raiskin: Oh, 9. 
Scanlon:  Nine.  
Raiskin: Measure  9. 
Scanlon:  Before that I'd worked at Peralandra bookstore.  
Long: Can you tell us about that? 
Scanlon:  Yes, yes. I did have some interesting discrimination in Creswell, so 
I'd like to get back to that.  
Long: Okay.   
Scanlon:  But first, Peralandra bookstore.  I was a massage therapist too, 
doing various library jobs. And then I got the job at Peralandra and 
I loved doing that. It was a metaphysical bookstore. And the 
owner, Catherine Harris, identified as a lesbian. Anyway, so there 
was some goddess stuff and Buddhism and there was a lot of 
astrology because Catherine was an astrologer and healing and so 
forth. It was eastern religion, meditation. I got to deal with the 
crystals and the tarot cards, and I got into that. And it was a lovely 
store. It was great.  
Long: Where was it located?  
Scanlon:  At that time it was by the former Mayflower Theater  I think. Really 
close to university. I think it would be on the corner across from the 
Christian college now, which should be Eleventh— I think Eleventh  
and maybe Agate, I'm not—  
Long: Alder?  
Scanlon:  Alder. I mean.  
Long: Okay, yeah. 
Scanlon:  That was a good job to have, a good place to work. And I was a 
massage therapist and had my own practice.  
Raiskin: You were part of a healing network?  
Scanlon:  Oh yeah. I don't remember, the first time I have no idea. But I 
thought there'd be a women's healing network. And so we got  
together, there were chiropractors and maybe a counselor and lots 
of massage therapists.  We just pretty much hadn't got together to 
have a place to talk and network and maybe had some speakers or 
talked about workshops we'd gone to and  that was good to have.  
Raiskin: Tell us about Creswell then.  
Scanlon:  Creswell. To back up a little bit, when the lesbians back in Fort 
Collins, Colorado didn't want to have to worry about (the ones that 
I hung out with),  didn't have to worry about getting fired from a 
job because we were lesbians. We took what we call shit jobs, 
which we didn't care if we lost and the people hired us just didn't 
care what our sexuality was, whatever. At that time, I did work in a 
bookstore there for a while, but I also did like cleaning, house  
cleaning, that kind of thing. And so anyway, I was just having little 
jobs that were not good. Like in the back of my mind was, it'd be 
nice to get a job that I really liked enough to stick with it. So I took 
this job in Creswell. I went back and got my teaching certificate so 
that I could do something with my library degree. I got this job in 
Creswell.  
 Anyway, I was freaked out that people would find out I'm a 
lesbian. So here I  am in the closet and I think, Gosh, here I am  in 
Eugene where I  thought I wouldn't have to be. But I was really 
careful. I carpooled with two or three men who were I worked 
with. And it was weird to not be able to talk about what I did the 
weekend or who I did it with. And it was stressful. And then there 
were— the voting on the gay rights measure was up and so people  
would come wearing, “Yes on 9” and stuff so you kind of like 
figured out who— and I started these imagination that I'd wake up 
in the night dreaming of moms coming at night with lit torches to 
get me, because I was a lesbian, and I was hanging out with their 
kids.  
 I was pretty old stuff that was coming up. And one day the 
principal said, “Can you talk to me,” no, he didn't even say after 
school, he said, “Can you talk to me tomorrow? A parent called 
and I have something I want to talk to you about.” And I had to 
wait all night. And so I was pretty freaked out and I get there and 
he said, “A mom says that her daughter said that there's a lesbian 
in the library.” And I said— well, I was surprised I had this much 
peace of mind. But I said, "And if so what?" I don’t know how I 
said it.  “And if there was, is it a problem or something?” And he 
said, “That's what I told her.” I was surprised that I had some 
support from him and he didn't come out and ask me if I was a 
lesbian, but he said, "I guess I'll have to ask her  what would be the  
problem  if they were” or something like that.  
 Or how did she know her daughter said that people say she's a 
lesbian. I guess the mom decided  to let it go. But the daughter  
stopped giving me any respect at all. She would talk to her friends 
during class and when I would ask them to be quiet, they would 
just keep on talking. And then later when I would be talking to her 
about something, she’d stand really close and lean against me and 
stuff. It's like, this is bizarre and nothing like a fifth grader  just  
wondering about their sexuality or something.  I don't know. It was 
weird. About then there was a job opening for a library clerk at the 
Lane  Community College. And I said to my principal, "what would 
it take to break my contract before the end of the year?"  
 And he said, "Well, not much because we are not going to hire a 
librarian  next year anyway.” People  were giving up librarians 
everywhere, couldn't afford them, I guess. So I left. And so, I hate 
to think I left just because of that one woman, but I had that fear all 
the time. And it wasn't comfortable. And what was I doing there? 
So I took this job at the community college, even though I was six to 
ten, which was pretty much different than  everybody else's 
schedule. And then I finally got a job at the Eugene Public Library 
temporarily as a young adult librarian. They hadn't had one before. 
And  then it became a full time job. And so I felt really good to start 
that whole program with the teens and do some of that work that, I 
liked. Then I got really good at telling stories to kids, which I love 
doing.  
Raiskin: Did you  overlap with Laura Philips in the library?  
Scanlon:  I ran into Laura Philips who was looking for a job and I said, "Well 
why don't you look at this volunteer coordinator at the library?" 
And so she got the job, which was great because she worked with 
teenagers, too. So in another capacity, so that was cool.  
Raiskin: Were you involved in the work against Measure 9 when it was 
happening? Were you involved in the community doing that?   
Scanlon:  I don't think I actually worked with the organizing. I did. Oh yeah, 
I must've done something. Handed out things or something, but it 
wasn't one of the organizers. I was like, give me a job and I'll 
distribute this or that.  
Raiskin: Do you remember how it felt at the time in the community to have 
that measure on the ballot?  
Scanlon:  Oh, it's just crummy. It's just crummy to think that other people get 
to decide if you're okay. Basically that's it. Are you okay? And are 
we going to allow you to love whoever you want to love? And it 
just felt really crummy and it gave me a little reality check, of 
course. I know Eugene might be in some ways very supportive, but 
as a state or as a country that we have so far to go.  
Long: When you were living in Eugene, were you aware of the separatist 
land movement in southern Oregon?  
Scanlon:  Oh, yeah. Yeah. I met lots of women who had been part of it or who 
would, well— for one time I remember someone invited me to like 
a solstice gathering on the Mountaingroves’  land and so I'd get to 
go for a visit. I know a woman who lived at Cabbag e Lane and 
another woman who is now outside of Roseburg who had 
experiences in  land. So yeah, it was sort of like— they were  really 
true blue lesbians. It's just like they had this higher— there was 
stuff like that going on. I look back on it and I can see it differently 
now, but like any group, I suspect, especially when you're under 
stress from others that you really want to fit in. These are my  
people and I want, so there were certain rules spoken or not. Like 
how you looked and who had more credentials. Oh, there were the  
gold star dykes who'd never been with a man. I say there were, I 
guess there still are. It's funny though, I was so immersed in that 
community. Maybe that's part of the reason why some of us, 
including myself, took over a job that  didn't ask for much from us 
because our energy wasn't really there. Our energy was with the 
community for fun, but also for helping out and for making 
changes and getting our rights. And that gave us plenty of time for 
drama though, like in relationships and stuff.  
Raiskin: Can you describe some of that, either conflicts in the community or 
attitudes around sexuality and relationships or just to give us a 
sense of that time and how people thought.  
Scanlon:  Okay. Well, when I was in Fort Collins, we had to  wear a plaid 
shirt and jeans and these big mountain boots, which I loved 
wearing. I was kind of an outdoor gal anyway. But people had to 
wear that whether they were into it or not. It seemed like you had 
to. And so when I came to Eugene, I thought there's  lesbians 
everywhere. But I realized that a lot of women here dressed like 
that and they weren't necessarily lesbians. So, there's that. The 
thing was that we weren't supposed to be butch and femme. No 
one should look femme, everyone should dress alike basically. You 
should all have short hair. This is the longest my hair has been. This 
is the first time I've grown it this long and it was never longer than 
that the last fifty years. And you wouldn't wear a skirt. It's kind of  
funny the way the phases go, because I often wanted to wear a skirt 
and there were times when I pushed it and I wore a skirt and I was 
the only one I knew that wore skirt. And I knew I was going to get 
some kind of criticism. Granted I'm very sensitive to criticism and 
probably imagine it also, but some of it felt like it was there, or you 
heard it.  
 Anyway, so it was a time and you weren't supposed to be butch or 
femme. And then there'd be people who started coming out like, 
"Oh, look, she's feminine and she's dressed femme" and et cetera. It 
was in such a small group that didn't allow that. It took me a while 
to like say, "Oh, yeah, there are people." So I guess it would take a 
while before it was that's who you hang out with or something. I 
don't know. So much went uncontested, unthought out, you just 
kind  of went with the flow. Like I said, I wanted to be part of that 
community. That community where my mom came and said, 
"Wow, these people love you." And it was a wonderful thing. And 
so he wanted it. So some of the hard parts were, well, for myself 
there was a lot of drama. I mean, I never felt like I was going to 
particularly have a long-term relationship.  
 Well, for instance, I never thought I would get married or have kids 
and I haven't. But I just thought that's what comes with being a 
lesbian, because that wasn't an option. It didn't seem like. And so 
by the time I was maybe, of having-kids-age, I pretty much decided 
that wasn't going to be for me. And then some of my friends started 
having babies. One of my friends was so— I didn't get a chance to  
ask her if she wants her name mentioned. But she was in a very, 
let's see, in a well-known  magazine at that time because she had a 
baby with her partner and her brother had donated the sperm to 
her partner with the agreement that he  and his gay partner would 
not have anything to do with the baby or try to be the parents. But 
they changed their minds and they took it to court. And that was 
written up in this big national magazine.  
Raiskin: Do you remember what year that was?  
Scanlon: No. How old is she now? I don't know. Her daughter's thirty 
something. So it was news breaking, is  what I'm trying to say. It 
wasn't something I grew up with the expectation that that was an 
option for me. So that's the kind of thing I think I'd like young 
people to know that it hasn't always been as easy. Not that it's easy, 
but a lot of things that we might take for granted now just were not 
happening then. So that was some drama.  
Raiskin: So because you were lesbian, you didn't envision a long-term  
relationship that might look like a marriage.  
Scanlon:  Right. I have friends who have been married the whole time I've 
been here, which is getting forty-something years. But a lot of us, 
including myself, had serial relationships and they were always 
monogamous and they were often the “moving van the first day,” 
but that didn't mean that they were going to necessarily last very 
long. Anyway, that became my expectation and I have had 
wonderful relationships and a lot of affection for these women  
but— okay, there was one that I just really loved and had a 
heartbreak over. But in general, I guess I was raised to be 
independent and I'm pretty happy independently. But anyway, it 
was also considered not okay to be interested in a man. That was 
definitely a  rule. And I had been heterosexual up until age twenty-
six or whenever this happened. And there was a time when I was 
pretty lonely and I had a—okay, here's another thing, my spiritual 
life has been off and on important to me and that was kind of 
frowned upon by the lesbian community it seemed like. You could 
be a witch, you could go to solstice gatherings, but please.  
 Yeah, I don't know, if they'd ever been a man involved in the 
religious path, then of course you wouldn't want to go there. It's 
pretty strict. At least that's who I was hanging out with that would 
say that. It was kind of a thing I did on the side, was this some 
spiritual seeking. Anyway, I was at a Sufi camp and it wasn't just 
spiritual seeking, I guess, because I met this man and I was 
interested. And this is hard to say, but anyway, he came to see me 
and I had sex with him and— ooh, I think  I might skip that part. I 
won't tell you that part. Okay, I'll tell you that part. So I got a very 
painful reaction and went to the doctor  to see what was going on 
with my vagina that was hurting so much. And I told her that I'd 
had sex with this man and she happened to be a lesbian. And she 
said, "Well, it's something called honeymoonitis." And she just said 
"So you were with a man; was it worth it?" I was shocked. I was 
shocked. I felt like I'm not just imagining this criticism. Anyway, it's 
there.   
 So I just really was terrified. I thought I had ruined my life, that no 
lesbian would ever speak to me again. I was afraid. I didn't even 
like the guy. I mean, he was gone, but I was afraid if I told anyone 
this, they would hate me. And I said, this is not the way to do it. If 
my friends, my closest friends can't accept me, then I should find 
that out. But I was scared and I told them and they  were okay. They 
were thinking I was really weird and dumb, but, anyway, it was a 
big thing. And so that was the hard part about being a lesbian. I 
started wondering how much of my life was in order to keep things 
cool, to be like somebody else wanted me to be, which you like to 
think that a part of the reason I did this was to be different.  
 I loved women but I never— when separatists were talking about 
being separatist, I just kept my mouth closed. I didn't want to have 
them say, "Oh, if you're not a separatist get out of here." But I never 
agreed. But I didn't meet many men because I wasn't doing that 
much. My sister was married and that was probably the only guy 
that was in my life. So, I've had a seven year relationship, but most 
of my relationships have been more like a couple of years. And so 
in the last ten years I just said, “This— somethings— what's this all 
about?" I just stopped being in relationships and so for the last ten 
years I was single and it was okay. See, I could think I was worried 
that it would not be okay. There's something about being a lesbian. 
I was trying to figure this as accurate or this is just that the pool is 
small of people that you can find that might be compatible with 
you.   
 And so then maybe this has certain amount of  anxiety that you're 
going to find a relationship and maybe better make sure there's 
someone there before you find yourself by yourself, as if that 
would be a horrible thing. It took me quite a while to find out it's 
not a horrible thing. And so that last ten years was not bad. And it 
made me think a little more clearly about what I was doing. Then I 
started working for hospice and I realized my parents are going to 
die in a few years, why don't I just work with them? And I was 
ready to leave Eugene for a while. I was thinking, well, maybe it's 
just I need a different spot. So many people say, you can't leave so 
it just draws you in and it does go. But I said I have to try it.  
 And so I know, I killed two birds with one stone. I'll go to Denver 
where I don't know anybody, live downtown, I've always wanted 
to live in a city downtown, see how I liked it and I'd be near my 
folks. And so I was there for two years and they died within two 
days of each other. And I came back about three years ago. And 
when I  came back, I remember going to— all along I've always had 
tai chi classes and the same tai chi teachers. There's a long 
relationship for me. And someone said, "Oh, go to this 
acupuncturist." I went to him and he said, "what do you need?" 
And I said, "I'm feeling like I need a community. I can't decide if I 
want to stay in Eugene or move." He said, "Well, there's this 
community up the road, Center for Sacred Sciences, and see what 
you think."   
 And I just loved it because it's about mysticism from all the 
different traditions of the world. And that day there was a house 
available to buy right down the street. So I said, "I guess I'm staying 
in Eugene again." So I did. And I bought that place and then I met a 
man. And here I am in a relationship with a man for  the first time 
in fifty years if you don't count that one night.  
Long: And what year was that?  
Scanlon:  That was a year ago.  
Long: Oh, okay.  
Scanlon:  One year ago. So there I was and I thought, see what I found out 
while I was single was that it wasn't, I guess, about being the right 
person that someone's going to be attracted to and want to pair up 
with me, like having the right credentials or whatever. And then 
being gone from Eugene for a couple of years gave me a 
perspective too of, I could live anywhere. And I just am not as 
identified with what the lesbians think. And see, I'm saying this as 
if— I'm just a person, and  I think being raised Catholic and having 
a very dominating mother, I was pretty good at following the rules. 
I guess I even imagined  them if they weren't there. I'm not saying 
that this stuff wasn't there, but it's like my friend Cindy was raised 
Catholic and I said, "how come you're not all guilty?" And she said, 
"I'm just not." And it's the same religion, but you take it in 
differently. So that's kind of my own experience about some of the 
drawbacks or some of the structure that seemed to be expected that  
you should follow. Plenty of people who didn't follow it but I guess 
that was my experience. When I walked into the group  meeting of 
people wanting to do the archives, I saw people from years ago and 
I thought, wow, I can't help but think how many know that I'm 
with a man now and how many people  used to be able to have— 
hate me for it.  
 Now I would just say think, just think. So interesting thing 
happened, it was funny, I went to a vineyard and I went with my 
boyfriend and another couple and I saw these friends of mine, and 
they happened to be a heterosexual couple that I've known for 
eight years and they were sitting with two lesbians, which I can still 
recognize them. So anyway, I'm just introducing myself and then I 
just had left everybody else over there and I just said, and I'd have 
a clear blue sky, you know, to them, because they don't know who I 
am. I said, "I've been a lesbian for fifty years, but now I have a  
relationship with the man." And so they were just going "uh-huh 
[affirmative], uh-huh [affirmative]" I didn't know them so I couldn't 
be worried about what they were going to think. I could, kind of. 
As I'm leaving and I turn around and one of them says, "bummer" 
and I thought that was such a compliment. Instead of taking it, it's 
like, "Oh, you are a bad lesbian." Instead I thought I heard it as, the 
lesbian community has had a loss. And I just thought, what a nice 
change of my attitude about it. So it's so much about attitude.  
Raiskin: And are you still friendly with women that you were in community 
with in the past?   
Scanlon:  Yeah, I mean, I have a smallish core group who I'm really close to. 
And then the people that I just see sometimes and stuff, they're the 
ones that don't even know yet if they know that I'm with a man or 
not. I think of the few couple, okay, I have two friends and we call 
them hasbians, and I love that expression. And they've been 
hasbians for at least  twenty  years and they're still friends with us. I 
don't know if they're— again, not all of those lesbians  are quote in 
the community. It depends on how involved you are. And I don't 
know if they ever were. You think it's like one community and 
there's lots of little ones too. So, yeah.  
Long: I have a follow-up question. You mentioned that so many of your 
lesbian friends took on more low level jobs. Did you think about 
your future and the consequences of having low paying jobs to 
when you would think about retirement or taking care of yourself 
in older age?  
Scanlon:  I never thought about it. Like my parents were saying, "Get a job, 
buy a house, buy a car." Because they figured if I did that then I'd 
get the job. And I think it works the other way, Dad. But I never 
cared about the insurance and I never thought I would die. I guess, 
I think a lot of us, okay for myself and others, we kind of kept the 
teenage adolescent thing longer. It was part of this rebellion thing. 
It's like, I don't need a job, I'm not going to climb up some 
corporate ladder. I don't need to. And I had been a hippie before 
that kind of. So it was just that kind of like who needs it? I can  
always get a job. People live on low paying jobs. I can always do 
that if I need to.  
 I didn't think about it and a lot of it was the distraction. Everything 
was so fun and loving and drama or anything that gave you plenty 
to think about and I just never worried about it much. And I didn't 
finally get the job for that reason even. I think I just got it thinking I 
was getting a little bored and I wanted something that I was more 
involved in and if it happened to come with some money, well that 
was good too. I got my first new car. Did I get out of it? I think 
when I got that job I got a new car and I got a house. But people 
would say, oh, I wanted to say, when you have a house, you'll have 
that feeling of ownership and like, this is your land and you're 
going to  protect it.  
 And I said, "What? I have never felt like that." And another guy 
said, "Oh, you'll never have fun anymore. On your weekends you'll 
always be working on your house." And like, I don't do that. So I 
think I'm glad that I learned enough. I can have those things, but 
I'm not like attached to them. And I think same thing with dying. I 
mean, I did get retirement though. I did work at the library and I 
got so much— 
Long: That’s the Eugene Public Library?  
Scanlon:  Yeah. And I had worked for city-related things part time for a long 
time, so it added up to a little but it's not a lot of money, but I guess 
that's not really been real important to me. But I do think now, if I  
need medical help, when I get older, because I don't have kids to 
help out. I was  lucky enough to help to be quite involved with my 
niece and nephew, even be the coach for my nephew's birth. And 
so I have some of that next generation coming up that I really, 
really am grateful for and I feel really good about. But not so much 
that I could expect them to take care of me in my old age. So that's 
something that is like— the meditation practice that I do now  is a 
lot about facing our death so we’re not  afraid of it. And so things 
like that I'm still working on, like a lot of people.  
Long: Could you tell us more about that work you're doing now?  
Scanlon:  You mean the meditation group?  
Long: Meditation, mm-hmm [affirmative] 
Scanlon:  Yeah, it's the idea that a lot of mystics—supposedly, mystics in all 
the different traditions over time have looked at the same thing. It's 
more of like a direct experience of the divine and whether you call 
it God or not. There's a couple of lesbians in that group and one of 
them still says that she has trouble because she still sees God as this 
man with a beard. And I'm thinking, God, I let go of  that idea a 
long time ago. It's just an idea, what you hold on to. What you're 
not quite ready to let go of or you want to keep fighting. So 
anyway, I think that that divinity that we all have doesn't have any 
gender  to it and it doesn't have anything. It's just something that 
we all share. And I think that direct connection with that is what, if 
we're really lucky, we get to have before we die. And if we do then  
I think we'll really feel like dying is not going to be  that scary 
because we've already let go of our ego.  
 It's about that and it's not too serious. Talking about it kind of 
makes it sound serious. But the— Joel Morwood  is the guy who 
directs it and wrote a book about it. And he can just quote all these 
traditions about the sameness of the beauty and the peace and the 
fact that we're all one. And that's to, like, close people out. Just 
doesn't make sense. Because if we're all the same and we don't have 
to have these rules and guidelines of how to be in and how to be 
out. And so anyway, I just really love it. I had experienced some 
really beautiful times in nature and shamanic journeying is 
something that I love to do and that's when I feel really close to 
nature and to that divinity that's here.  
 And here  the speakers will quote Shamans and I'll quote the Jewish 
mystics and I've been on the Sufi path before and they do a good 
job of not putting a gender on God at all. And you can do it without 
the God part. There's the Jnanis  part where people go and think, 
think, think. And I used to love my philosophy classes. There was a 
teacher that was teaching Black Elk Speaks and he got so excited 
about it that he quit the university and went and lived up in Dakota 
with the natives and that's the kind of people that I like that just go 
for the gusto,  you know. But it's lot of fun and joking and it's just a 
real nice place. So I'm glad I'm there.  
Raiskin:  I'm wondering if you've had any connection with young people, 
like the teenagers you used to work with and just seeing how  
they're managing this gender and sexuality in these times. Whether 
you have any connection with them.  
Scanlon:  Well, when I was the teen librarian, I had a teen council and I got to 
hang out with some kids  that probably only about like ten or 
twelve. There was a core group and they would come all the time 
to the meetings and they would love it. And they'd loved hanging 
with each other. It's kind of funny, I was still nervous from that job, 
teaching. I had never actually said I'm a lesbian, but I think I didn't 
hide the fact either. And I think that they figured it out. And there 
was this one boy in the group who I believe, well, I found out later 
for sure that he's gay and he wore a, "I'm a lesbian" button and just 
to tweak people's minds. And I just loved it that they could do that. 
I just loved it.  
 Oh, they  were reading a book that was about a lesbian, a young 
girl, a teenager that went to camp and they really liked that book. 
And the author was available to come and  talk. She came and I 
noticed that they were asking questions like, "Well, how did your 
parents feel when you came out?" Well, see, they assumed that she 
was a lesbian and I had found out that she was bisexual, I think, or 
had been. Anyway, but it was a small group. It made me sad that 
there weren't more people there. This was back in, I don't know. 
I'm not really clear on all the dates, but I loved the work that Laura 
Philips was doing and it would've been nice maybe to have, I don't 
know. Okay, here's another example. Oh God, it's so easy to think 
of the hard parts than the good parts.   
 But I got this new manager in the youth department and the kids 
really wanted to have a talent show. And so my challenge was to 
make it somehow related to books so that my supervisor would 
say, "Okay, that's the thing." I don't know how we got that one by, 
but it was a talent show. And there was this young man that I had 
never met before that showed up and said he wanted to be in it. 
And he was singing in drag and it was really a good job. But he 
was dressed in drag and he was lip syncing I think. Yeah. And my 
supervisor even said to me, "Maura , are you doing this on purpose 
to me?" She thought that I had purposely asked this person to come 
so that she would  be upset. I just— oh, God, it was so weird. It was 
so weird. Anyway. He came and did a good job. And so anyway, 
there was just challenges and I guess I didn't always want to stir it 
up, I guess. I'm glad that the young kids can be more free to do 
that,  especially when they live in  Eugene.  
 But I feel for the kids who don't have that and live in places where 
it's still really, really hard. And the same thing with me coming out 
as being bisexual. I never thought of myself as bisexual. I just said, 
well, I liked men and now I like women, but I thought I was, be 
hard to say that here today but I want it to be easier in the future, 
just like with other groups. I just want people to know that that's an 
issue for some people.  
Long:  When you think back to your experiences as a lesbian in Eugene, 
can you think about or tell us about what you might've considered 
the greatest joy during that period?   
Scanlon:  Well, one of them is that day, I'm so glad that my mother came and 
I had that experience with her because seeing through her eyes 
what I kind of had not taken for granted but just said, "Oh, that's 
how it is in Eugene. You get to have friends and you get to see 
them places and they have friends and they like you and that 
you’re family." And for her to notice that and say, "Wow", that felt 
great. And some of my best friends weren't there. Some of my best 
friends were kind of timid to go out and be social. But I had new 
friends all the time and there are people in the room I didn't know, 
but I probably would know by tomorrow or next week.  
 And that was just a wonderful feeling to know that— and then 
when you did meet someone and you wanted to think, "Oh, is this 
someone that I would like to be in a relationship with?" You could 
talk to people and they'd say, "Oh yeah, she's cool." Or "Oh, watch 
out for her." Yeah. I never had an extended family. We left 
Massachusetts and I would hear about people that had cousins and 
grandparents and stuff and they'd say, "Joey married an Italian girl 
from this part of town." And anyway, here I would know people 
and they'd know people that I knew and it wasn't all just gossip. 
This is what experience I've had and, I don't know, it was just a real 
shared family. It was family.  
Long: Like an extended family for you.  
Scanlon:  Right. You didn't have to like everybody in it. That they were your 
family anyway and you'd certainly stand up for them and help 
them if they needed you. That's the beauty of it.   
Long: Apart from your bad experience with the doctor that you told us 
about, as a lesbian, what were your experiences for healthcare in 
Eugene?  
Scanlon:  Well, I was pretty lucky because there was at least one lesbian 
doctor that I knew about. Oh, there was another lesbian doctor that 
I went to later. And so I didn't really have any  trouble. Sometimes 
I'd go to a new doctor and I'd have to say I'm a lesbian and that 
made me nervous that I would, well, they would think or feel or 
whatever. But no one ever said anything. I was pretty shocked 
when one— I didn't know her. One doctor, didn't know she was 
lesbian, but she showed up at a softball game and ended up going 
home with one of the players. So I was like, oh, this is different. So 
there was more a— it's not doctors over there and we're over here, 
but some of us are doctors, you know. That's kind of cool. That was 
kind of cool.  
Raiskin: Is there anything else that you should tell us that you have stories 
about that we haven't asked about that you want to have recorded?  
Scanlon:  I don't know. I should have written down my highlights in case I 
thought of something else.  
Long: You do have in your notes that you worked at a restaurant called 
Wild Iris restaurant. That was a lesbian owned restaurant?  
Scanlon:  Yes, there was— 
Long: Can you tell us about that and where it was located?   
Scanlon:  The Wild Iris was on Lincoln I think, at about Twelfth, maybe 
between Eleventh  and Twelfth  or something across from what was 
the State Employment Office, which may or may not still be there. 
Three women owned it. At least two of them are lesbian. The third 
wasn't part of the running of the restaurant. But it was pretty 
amazing. Let's see. Oh, what I loved about it was often in the 
mornings on the weekend, some women would come from having 
been tree planters. Hoedads was the name of the wider umbrella 
group, I think. But I don't know. I think there was a women's crew, 
I'm not real clear about that. But they would come, it seemed like 
straight from the mountains, but I think they went home and 
showered first. And then they'd come and they'd have breakfast 
and that was really fun. And there were a couple of lesbians, who 
are a couple, who worked at Excelsior. And they'd always come to 
the Wild Iris for breakfast. I remember they always had orange 
juice and I felt like it was their chance to be waited  on after waiting 
on everybody else. And I learned how to use an espresso machine 
and it was fun.  
 One of the owners, I want to say Maryann Gould, she's got her 
thesis in the literature of opera or something. Sometimes she'd be 
singing opera while she's cooking. And the other woman, I 
haven't— thought I saw her at our gathering last time, but it turned 
out to be somebody else. Anyway, that was fun. And one time I 
remember renting— I love to put on social things and I rented the 
place and we had a— I don't know, I'm sure we didn't call it a 
Sinatra night, Mafia night or something. And we had Sinatra music  
and red tablecloths and my friend Leslie came carrying a violin 
case. I can't remember what she had in it, but it wasn't a gun, but it 
was funny. And people dressed up like, either mobsters or, what 
do you call them? Dolls? So actually I had the chance to wear a boa 
that night.  I don't usually get a chance to wear. That was fun.  
Long: What year, what were those years?  
Scanlon:  Probably early on in my stay here. So probably maybe the middle 
eighties, I think. The restaurant wasn't there that long, but it was 
good. And then when we had the— oh, they had comedy shows at 
the time my mom was there. I hadn't realized what a big deal that 
was in my memory. Was at Zoo Zoo’s, which is a restaurant I think 
in the Morning Glories there or it's next to Morning Glory and 
Willamette by the train. And I think we rented that some nights 
because we had a comedy show and I don't think anyone has 
mentioned— I meant to try  to find their names but Cholena 
Erickson  and her sister, they don't live here anymore, but they were 
the hilarious comedy act. And I saw the name of Cholena  in a book 
somewhere recently and I never seen it before, but maybe we can 
try and figure out who they— what  their whole names are and 
where they are now because they were hilarious. And maybe it was 
just one of the acts, but it was really fun to go there to Zoo Zoo’s. 
What else?  
Raiskin: Is there something you'd like your nephew, niece to know about 
your life?   
Scanlon:  They know a lot about it. I was lucky enough to get to have them 
often on spring break. And one time they went with my partner 
Dana and I, we drove them down to the Southwest. And they 
always knew my partners. And, let's see, what would I like them to 
know about? So I don't know. They just kind of knew about my life. 
I love it that they were right there with me. Lots  of the times 
Christmas would be at their house with— I wonder sometimes if 
they think "another girlfriend?" you know, if they got confused. But 
maybe there were longer ones around the time that they were a 
little, maybe I subconsciously felt like they needed a little 
something or maybe I was interested enough in those little ones 
that I didn't have to go find a new girlfriend  to add variety to my 
life. They added so much to my life. It was just so wonderful 
having them in my life. I just love it that they loved me the way I 
was and who I was with and don't have  to ask questions. Just 
unconditionally loving each other.  
 Xavier, my nephew was— I think I wrote this down here. Lily 
Tomlin came to town, early on, at least a couple of times and more 
later. But I guess her partner Jane Wagner came first or the second. 
Anyway, she happened to be in a hot tub where Xavier was. I 
wasn't there. I wish I had been, but he was only about, I don't 
know, two or three. But he got to be in a hot tub with Jane Wagner 
and I was told that she was asking questions about turkey-baster  
babies. Because that's when our people were having their babies. 
My friends were having their babies. And she was getting ideas for  
material for a possibility for Lily to talk about sometime. Anyway, 
so Xavier got to rub elbows with some of the famous lesbians.  
 And they're really open. Raleigh  has gay friends. I think she might 
be going to a gay wedding this weekend and Xavier has traveled 
with some of his friends who are gay, so I love it that part of that is 
living in Eugene, but part of it is probably  having a lesbian auntie.  
Raiskin: Do you think you'll stay in Eugene as you age?  
Scanlon:  Probably. Probably. I love the ocean, but, I could visit it. And there 
were lots of women that I thought, oh, I should tell them about 
these archives and I didn't have a chance to see if they wanted to 
come. And so some said, "You can mention my first name, but 
don't mention my whole name." Well, I'm really glad that this is 
happening.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Scanlon:  Thank you for having me.  
Raiskin: Yeah. Thank you very much.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  We appreciate it.  
Scanlon:  Okay.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  