 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the  University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections, and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Linda McIntosh  on September 
6, 2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries' 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections  and 
University Archives  and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. Linda, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project, and 
that you give your permission for the university to preserve and 
make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
McIntosh:  Yes, I do.   
Long:  Great, thank you. Let's just start with a basic question. If you could 
tell us when and where you were born and something about your 
early years?  
McIntosh:  Well, I was actually born in Oregon City, Oregon. And I grew up 
primarily in Milwaukie, Oregon. But my family was interesting 
because both of my parents are from Appalachia. My father's 
family's from the Blue Ridge, and my mom's family's from the 
Smoky mountains. And my father was in World War II. He spent 
actually nearly four years in the infantry in Southeast Asia. And he 
had a brother who was stationed in Portland, and he was in the 
Navy.  And so after the war, my father actually moved to Portland 
in 1948, right after my parents were married. And my mother was 
fifteen, and my father was twenty-eight. They married and left 
North Carolina and came out to Oregon and— 
Raiskin: How did they meet each other?  
McIntosh:  Both sides of the family lived up in the mountains. I mean, they 
were complete mountain people, especially my father. But when he 
came back from the war, he started a little restaurant in the nearest 
town, which is about thirty  miles away. And my mom used to 
come in to the restaurant and hang out at the counter. And so then 
they got to know each other and then got married.  
 They came out to Oregon, and then I was born, that was in '48 and I 
was born in '50. Up to the age of seven, I spent most of my time in 
North Carolina because they just kept returning home. My father  
loved Oregon, but I think it was a really hard transition because 
they were, I mean, they had been in those mountains since— 
They're Scots-Irish, on my father's side, they're Scots-Irish and 
they'd been in the Blue Ridge since probably late 1700s, early 1800s, 
fought at Kings Mountain. I don't know if you know about battle, 
but they are very— 
 You wanted me to talk to you about what influenced my life, I 
mean, they're Scots-Irish who were Highland Scots, who were 
forced out of Scotland and into Ireland, and then eventually came 
to America. I grew up with a good dose of anti-government, anti— 
just, I mean, they were your very—still are—they're your very 
typical mountain people who just keep to themselves, anti-
government, very independent. They would go to town once a 
month to get flour and sugar, and they provided everything else.  
 And it was the coolest thing for me as a kid because I lived with my 
grandparents, my parents, and my great-grandmother, and then all 
of my cousins, and aunts, and uncles, all lived there too. It was this 
whole McIntosh  clan up at the top of a mountain. And what an 
amazing thing for a kid to just run around those mountains with all 
your cousins all day long, and so— 
Raiskin: And your mom was like seventeen  or eighteen  when she had you?  
McIntosh:  She was seventeen. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Yeah. So, good for her to go back and have some family support.   
McIntosh:  Yeah. I actually think there was some trouble between my parents, 
and I think she ended up with her family for a while, and then they 
got back together, and then they went back and forth between the 
Oregon and North Carolina. My other sister was born in Oregon as 
well. Both of my sisters were. But, my father's family was this 
very— they were tobacco farmers, but then my mom's side of the 
family was, and again, they're from the Smokys, and just a really 
vibrant family. I mean, they were English-German descent and they 
lived up in, like I said, up in the Smokys, but they were just really a 
wild family. I mean, they were just— a lot of violence. You'd see 
my grandma  sitting down on the front porch with her mouth full of 
snuff with the shotgun across her knee. And that was the reality of 
it, or there'd be a bear outside, she'd get all the kids and take him in 
the back of the house and then she'd just start blasting away at the 
door. I mean, it was like that. I mean, it was incredible. I grew up in 
these two very different kind— One was very Southern Baptist, 
very quiet, and then this other very rowdy family.  
 Just a very interesting family. And it's interesting too because my 
family's land was taken by the government for the Smoky National 
Park, so on that side of the family I got another dose of anti-
government, anti-possession by  the government. They bought my 
grandfather's land for $3 an acre, and it's now the Smoky Mountain 
National Park. And then several members of that family sold, their 
land was repossessed by the government and made into the park.   
 And my grandfather was one of the first park rangers in the Smoky 
Mountain National Park. I think because that was the 
compensation for taking their land. And then my mom's side of the 
family were coal miners and heavy construction workers. My 
grandfather helped build the Blue Ridge Parkway. He helped with 
that, in part of the construction of that.  
 And then my aunts and uncles left the mountains. They  did leave 
the mountains and go to Detroit. So we had that every Friday night 
they would leave Detroit and drive all the way down to the 
mountains, spend what  time they could with the family, and then 
drive back Sunday night to go back to work in Detroit. And they all 
worked for Ford. And my uncle was a union official for Ford. And 
so that's how I learned about unions and working people. And so I 
grew up this dose of— I think that's where things started for me.  
 And I was always very— my mother just talked  about this a couple 
of days ago, she said, "You always had something to say, and you 
never held back, and you just said what you thought."  
 And it was a conflict in my family because I thought very 
differently than they did. I was not, I mean, I grew up in an 
incredibly racist family. My great-grandfather was— they were 
called circuit preachers, and he would ride through the 
Appalachians on his mule and preach, and then on Saturday night 
he had his robe and his hood on, he was in the Klan. That was very 
interesting. I remember being little and getting in arguments with 
my family about black people.   
 I mean it just, and I was— So, and I'm very curious, I was very 
curious about all kinds of people, and they told me that I used to 
sneak off, because we had chain gangs that would come up and 
work on our road, and I would sneak off, and they would find me 
down with the chain gang because I was just so curious about 
people different than me, and I was up in the mountains. I was 
just— so, anyway, so eventually though, my family settled here 
and back in Oregon, and then I came to Eugene in '68 as a freshman 
at UO. That's how I got here.  
Long:  What high school did you go to?  
McIntosh:  I went to Milwaukie High School in Milwaukie, Oregon. And I 
actually graduated from high school in Colorado because my 
family moved in my senior year. I actually stayed here, lived with a 
friend for a year and then I went to Colorado to finish high school.  
Raiskin: What were you like in high school? And what was your social 
scene like?  
McIntosh:  I was very social, very— and the thing about me was I was friends 
with everyone. When I was in high school you had the soshes, and 
the jocks, and the nerds, and the— you had all these groups and I 
never bought into any of that. And I was just friends with everyone 
and had a lot of friends. And I've always been very active. I've 
always been very athletic. I've always— I mean, I started out really 
young doing athletics, and  I did that all through high school, 
college, and into now.   
Raiskin: What sports did you do?  
McIntosh:  I did a lot of track and field in high school, softball, basketball, 
volleyball, because in those days everybody just played everything. 
It's like you played basketball this season, you played softball this 
season, and so I did everything.  
Long: And that was before Title IX.  
McIntosh:  That was before Title IX.  
Long: So, were there actual teams or was it just extra-curricular?  
McIntosh:  No, there were teams. Milwaukie High School was really 
progressive for its day. I mean, this was incredible because we had 
Shop and Home Ec. They required the boys to take Home Ec, and 
the girls to take shop. So I took shop. That's how I got interested in 
what I ended up doing, because I took shop and I loved it. And the 
other thing's my father's a carpenter, my father is a— he was a 
master cabinet maker. And so I would watch him. He built all this 
stuff in the basement by hand and I would just watch him. But, 
yeah, I had a great time in high school. I loved high school. Yeah. I 
did. 
Raiskin: Did you have any inkling that you  were attracted to girls?  
McIntosh:  About twelve  I realized I was way more attracted to girls than 
boys, but I had no— at that time I had no knowledge, no words. I 
had no way to figure that out. I dated boys, and even into college I  
was still dating men, but by my junior year in college that was all 
done and I knew what I was and I  had a word for it.  
Raiskin: Do you remember how you found the words for that?  
McIntosh:  I think when I came to school, when I came to U  of O, and I just 
started taking classes and meeting people. It just— I mean, my 
world changed totally when I came to Eugene because it just 
exploded for me. I mean, I was just exposed to education, and 
knowledge, and people, and culture, and music, and art that I'd 
never really  been exposed to before. And it was just a great time for 
me. And I had the typical college experience, I think. I just did a lot 
of partying,  and I did well in school, although  I didn't really apply 
myself very much.  
Raiskin: What was your major?  
McIntosh: I graduated with a degree in sociology, and a minor in education, 
and never did anything with it. I worked as a janitor,  for work 
study, and got out of college,  couldn't find a job. UO kept me on as 
a janitor.  
Long: So what year did you arrive as a freshman?  
McIntosh:  Sixty-eight. 
Long: Sixty-eight. Can you describe what the campus was like at that 
time?   
McIntosh:  Yeah. I don't think a lot of people realize this, but Eugene was on 
par with Berkeley in terms of anti-war,  the anti-war. It was a pretty 
agitated time in Eugene. And I had started my activism really in 
high school with civil rights. Martin Luther King was— I 
discovered him and I was just— he was my complete hero. And so 
I started actually in high school with civil rights, and I continued on 
with that. But when I got here, I really got involved in the anti-war 
movement here and a lot of the protests and work that was being 
done at that time.  
 That's my memory of Eugene really at that time, I mean, when I 
first came, it wasn't really— my freshman year, I wasn't really 
involved in that too much. I was just living in a dorm. I stayed on 
campus pretty much. I had a bicycle, I loved to ride my bike 
everywhere, and I just would ride all around town and— But then I 
started catching on to what was going on with the anti-war 
movement and got involved in that.  
 And it was interesting because I was actually interviewed by the 
FBI. I don't know if you know, Prince Lucien Campbell Hall right 
down here was blown up in '69 or so. I don't remember  the year. 
But anyway, by my association with someone, I was interviewed by 
the FBI. And again, that's another thing for me to, I mean, my views 
about the government really changed during that time. I already 
had these views from growing up of just very anti-government, 
we're independent people, we're— but this all layered on that too 
as well.   
 And then I remember I was going to a demonstration and I was 
riding my bike, and I came around the corner and here was this 
massive SWAT unit set up. And, I mean, with their rifles, helmet— 
it was a massive military presence. And I was going to join this 
group of college students who were exercising their right to protest. 
And  that incident and the other was just like— it really was eye-
opening for me in terms of government and free speech in this 
country.  
Long: Later on during your time at UO, Robert Clark became president.  
McIntosh:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  What were your impressions of Dr. Clark?  
McIntosh:  I remember that, but it don't re— And I remember, wasn't there 
some controversy around him, or? I don't remember exactly, but I 
do remember that. And I don't remember. Oh, that's right. There 
was a sit in, yes, there was a sit in. Yes. Yes, that's right. Yes. Right. 
He was not— Yeah, that's right. That's right.  
Long: He actually had some skill in negotiating with the students, 
because he had come from what was then called San Jose College. 
San Jose State College.  
McIntosh:  That's right.  
Long: And then he came up to UO. And so he had more experience 
working directly with the students.   
McIntosh:  That's right. Yeah. I remember that now. Yes. And I remember, 
yeah, and the sit in and— yes. But, those are my memories of that 
time, just a lot of being  involved in a lot of that. And then of course 
what happened for me next was in the feminist movement, and 
then the lesbian movement, of course. I don't remember really any 
gay-lesbian presence really. I don't remember that. I don't know 
what was going  on in town at that time, but it wasn't really until I 
got into junior-senior year. And I had a girlfriend, my first steady 
girlfriend, we were together for five years, and we got together at 
the end of my junior year in college.  
 And we were like, “Okay, so where are all the other lesbians in 
Eugene?” And we ended up being friends with a lot of gay men. 
There were a lot of gay men are around. And I had a friend from 
high school, and he had a group of friends. We ended up hanging 
out with them a lot. And that's who we hung out with. And then I 
remember we were walking along one day and we saw this  little 
sign up that said "Lesbian meeting." And we went  " Lesbian 
meeting!" And so we got really excited and we went, and it was at 
this woman's house. I don't know if anyone's talked about, can I say 
names or— 
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
McIntosh:  Okay. A woman named Gabriel. And anyway, Gabriel, and she had 
a daughter,  Siri. Siri was about five. She was having a meeting in 
her house, and so we went. There was two of us, one other couple, 
and Gabriel, and that was it. But the thing I will never forget is  
Gabriel had goats in her house. Her entire second floor of her house 
was taken up with hay and straw and goats.  
Long:  And where was the house?   
McIntosh:  It was just downtown. It's in old part of Eugene, down on probably, 
yeah, probably down on Monroe, somewhere in that area. But, yes, 
so we had our little meeting, and then I think we met a few times 
after that, and then eventually there became— I became part of this 
speaker's bureau, or speaker panel, and I would get invited by the 
U of O and all these classes to go around, and be on this panel, and 
talk about being a lesbian. And the interesting part of it was that 
there was a lot of my friends  that I had known from school that I 
hadn't really had a chance to come out to yet.  And so they're at 
these panels that I go to, and I was like, "Oh, hi." I did a lot of that 
in those days, and— 
Long: Can you tell us what was it about yourself, about your character or 
personality that led you to be so open?  
McIntosh:  Well, I just, like I said, when I got here and I got in this 
environment and as the women's community grew, the lesbian 
community grew, I just felt like I had died and gone to heaven. I 
mean, it was just a wonderful place for me. It was just very 
empowering. It's like people were just inventing themselves. It was 
like you can be whatever you want. And that's how it was. It just 
made me feel like, hey, I can be whatever I want. I can do  whatever 
I want. And women were challenging every single thing. I mean,  
every single piece of our lives was being challenged, from family, 
to work, to, I mean, everything, relationships. It was just this 
incredibly vibrant, empowering time in this town. I mean, it was 
incredible. And I remember the Riv Room, trying to get that into— 
I don't know if other people have talked about the Riv Room. But 
when we first started going to the Riv Room, when I turned 
twenty-one, I could finally go to bars.  
 I went to the Riv Room, and at that time we had to have the same 
number of men and women on the dance floor at the same time 
because the police came through several times during the night. 
And at that point you had to make it look like it was not a gay  bar. 
That was interesting. And then eventually over time that just 
changed. It just became more women became involved, and then 
eventually it really became more of a women's bar than anything.  
 And I just felt like I had a lot more connection to the men's 
community, but then a lot of them started leaving and moving to 
San Francisco, Oakland, then we started losing them to AIDS, and I 
lost several friends to AIDS and so— So, anyway, but then I just 
jumped head first in the feminist movement, lesbian  movement, 
and just took off  from there.  
Raiskin: And so when you graduated college, what did you do for work? 
You were a janitor— 
McIntosh:  Well, I was a janitor, and then I left in January, the following 
January, and I spent six months traveling in Europe and then drove  
across country from North Carolina back to San Diego. But that 
was very interesting. And I went with my partner at the time to 
Europe and that was incredible, being in Europe in 1973 and trying 
to find— we had a book called, and I wish I could find it, it's called 
the Gray guide or something.  
Raiskin: The Gaia’s  Guide? 
McIntosh:  No, this was an earlier version of this. And it was where you could 
find gay bars in Europe, but it was completely incorrect, and we 
ended up in places we shouldn't be. And, I mean, we did find some 
gay bars and— but really they were actually lesbian or gay in 
Europe. And it was the scene where you just had hear by word of 
mouth, and you go up and you knock on a little opening in the 
door, and someone opens a little opening, and they look at you and 
decide whether or not to let you in.  
 And it was so interesting because they were very much into role 
playing. I would have women come and ask my partner if they 
could dance with me. And on the dance floor you had the definite 
femme and butch on the dance floor. And it was really, really 
interesting. I just read my journal from that trip last night and I 
forgot a lot of it, but we actually were able to find a lot more than 
I— because I thought we only were able to  find bars in Paris and 
Berlin, of course we could find them there, but there was some 
other places we found bars as well.   
 And of course when we would find other people we would just be 
so happy, because it was hard, it was very hard because we were 
harassed, we were chased. We were chased by groups of young 
boys. We were called names. We were— I mean, at one point in 
Yugoslavia, it became very bad. My partner was assaulted. I was 
shot at. By the grace of I don't know what, we escaped and made it 
to Athens, we went onto Greece from there. So a lot of was very 
hard, I mean, just because we were not welcome. In '73, I mean, it 
wasn't like it is now.  
 But the positive part of the trip for me was just like what happened 
when I came to Eugene. It was the art, and the culture, and the 
music, and the food, and the— I mean, I'd never been anywhere in 
my life, and it was just mind blowing. It really changed me a lot in 
terms of my appreciation for all of those things. That was a great 
experience. And then we came back and we actually— a little car 
and we shipped it back to the US, and then we went and stayed 
with  my father until the car came. And I often think about that 
because I never came out to my father, but here I am with my 
girlfriend staying at his house and— 
Long: He never suspected anything?  
McIntosh:  And I look at pictures. And I actually brought you a picture of 
myself and my grandmother at that time. And when you look at 
me and you look at my grandmother, you go, “Oh.” That was 
interesting. Then we drove cross country and then came back to 
Eugene. And that was in '73. Yeah.   
Raiskin: And so, what did you do then?  
McIntosh:  Then, let's see, '73. The two of us, we tried to do some businesses, 
we did a house painting business, we did a potting soil business, 
we did— 
Raiskin: How do you do a potting soil business?  
McIntosh:  Well, she had worked for a nursery and so she had a formula for 
this potting soil mix. And when I think about this now, it's just 
crazy. So we had this formula, so we went and we bought a dump 
truck load of this stuff, and we didn't have any place to put it. We 
dumped it in our garage, if the landlord would have ever known 
that. There was this massive pile  of soil in our garage. We mixed it 
and we packaged it, and then we took it around to all the stores in 
town and had it for sale. And that's what we did.  
 And it was really funny driving down here today, we got our bags 
and our labels from this company called Z Pack. I've not seen Z 
Pack in ages. Driving down the freeway today, right in front of me 
was a Z pack truck. And I went, “that’s, uh.”  
Long: What was your company called?  
McIntosh:  Specific Soil. And we sold it to all the grocers, and the nurseries, 
and that sort of thing.  We were just trying to piece it all together 
and make it work. And then I got hired by the City of Eugene, and 
that was something that I did  want to talk about today because I 
got hired in 1974 as an apprentice for the city of Eugene, an  
apprentice carpenter. And that was because of Title IX, oh no,  
affirmative action. Sorry. It was affirmative action. So the City of 
Eugene was hustling to try and fill these jobs with women. And so I 
got a job, and I'll never forget the questions they asked me for the 
interview. I really didn't know. I mean, they asked me what a 
sixteen  penny meant, and I didn't know. And a sixteen-penny— do 
you know sixteen-penny is?  
Long:  A nail.  
McIntosh:  It's a nail. Yeah, it's a size of a nail, but I think I had enough 
painting experience and so they hired me. The first day my 
supervisor took me aside and told me clearly, directly, I was not 
wanted there.  I was not welcomed there, and they only did it 
because they had to. And then they really didn't train me. They 
really didn't do much with me. They actually ended up putting me 
with the painter, and I'll never forget this guy either. He was an 
alcoholic, and just this older man, and we hit it off great, and we 
had a great time, but I didn't really get to do much. And— 
Long:  How old were you?  
McIntosh:  I was twenty-four. But then they hired this guy, and he was 
younger, and we hit it off. And so they ended up partnering us 
together, and they would send us out to do work. And this guy 
was— well, he's now a master boat builder in Seattle. I mean, he 
was incredible. His carpentry skills were absolutely phenomenal, 
and he decided to take me on. He's like, "I will teach you Linda."   
And so he did. We went out and we worked together, and he 
taught me, and that's really how I learned carpentry, from him. 
And so I did that as part of working for the city of Eugene. And 
then we both quit, and then we went out, worked on our own for  
probably a year or so. But my experience with the city was not 
good. I mean, they pretty much just like, “Yeah, we got you. We 
don't know what to do with you. We really don't want to do 
anything with you.” I came in one day and there was “dyke” 
scratched into the door of where I worked. It was a hostile 
environment until Glenn came along. And then— 
Raiskin:  How did it make you feel?  
McIntosh:  Angry. Yeah, I was angry. I was like, no, it's not right. And I really 
didn't let it get to me too much personally because I just felt like, 
you need to be educated. And I dealt with who I could deal with 
positively, and I had a few friends there, but basically it was just 
very hostile. And so thank goodness for Glenn. Glenn came along 
and then— And actually, Glenn and I ended up living together in a 
house, and working together, and then Crescent Construction came 
along. That's how I came into that, so started semi-skilled.  
Raiskin: Tell us about Crescent Construction, how it started. And— 
McIntosh:  I was trying to think about that, and I don't know if anyone's 
spoken of Rena Klein and Nancy Schutt yet, but Rena is an 
architect. I've not seen Rena in years and years, but she was an 
architect. And Rena was really the one behind this company  
because she had the skills for the plans, and she knew building 
codes. And I don't remember if Nancy was an architect or just a 
drafts person, but anyway, they both had those skills. I think they 
just decided to start a company, and then they started looking for 
women who could do carpentry, and that's the best I can recollect 
about how it happened.  
Raiskin: How many of you were there?  
McIntosh:  I brought a picture today to show you of all of us, but do you want 
to see that now or wait until later?  
Raiskin: Oh, wait till after.  
McIntosh:  Okay. I'll just show you later.  
Raiskin: You can tell us about it.  
McIntosh:  I think over the span of the business there were probably maybe 
ten women involved. It wasn't a large company. The core stayed 
and then we would change a few people as we went along. But we 
were doing right off the bat. Our first job was building a home from 
the ground up in a new development here in Eugene. I love to go 
around Eugene because I can see the work that I've done around 
Eugene.  
Long: Oh, that's cool.  
McIntosh:  I mean, it still exists. And, I mean, we built Zoo Zoo’s, it used to be 
Zoo Zoo’s  down by the train station, that building we built. I mean,  
we remodeled that and for a restaurant. The KEZI, at one point we 
did the KEZI, what do you call it? That the newscasters— 
Raiskin:  Studio.  
McIntosh:  —sit behind. No. The— 
Long: Oh, the desk.  
McIntosh:  The desk, whatever, we did that. We did just all kinds of things. I 
mean, a lot of remodeling primarily, but with some new 
construction. And I found our business card. And I brought that, I 
put it in a little frame because I didn't want to get it messed up. But 
I brought that, and it's really cool to look at it because it says 
quality work by women and it's just really, so it was just a— 
Raiskin: And what were the other skills that people had? How were they 
trained?  
McIntosh:  Well, Rena, they went to school. I think they were all self-taught. I 
mean, I don't know what Lina I told you about how she learned her 
carpentry, but Lina was excellent, I mean, just very talented. I 
mean, just very meticulous and— 
Long: That's Lina Van Brunt.  
McIntosh:  Lina Van Brunt. Yes. Just meticulous, beautiful work. And the rest 
of us really just learned how we did.  
Raiskin: And how did you get your contracts?   
McIntosh:  We would advertise, and that was part of my job, I evolved into— I 
did the bid work.  And we had this beautiful little book with all 
our— and so I'd go to these meetings with the  little book with our 
work and all that. And then I would just talk to the people, and 
then we do competitive bids, we put in bids. And it's interesting 
because I chose sociology as a degree because I didn't want to do 
math, well, carpentry is nothing but math, and so— because I was 
the one who figured— I had to figure it out like every single nail 
you needed to build a house, every board, everything, and you had 
to figure it all out to the smallest thing so that you could put in a 
bid, and can be competitive, and you could still make money from 
the job.  
 We just did competitive bids, and people would hire us, and a lot 
of women would hire  us in the beginning. And then men started to 
hire us more, but businesses started to hire us, and then it just 
became word of mouth, and the quality of our work. And that's 
how we got business.  
Raiksin: Did the city ever have to hire you for minority contracting or 
anything like that?  
McIntosh:  No, they never did. No. I'm not sure that was going on at that 
point. But— 
Long: And what are the years when you had the construction company.  
McIntosh:  I started— that's why I have this here because I had to look at that 
for a second. Let's see. So I started with them, yeah, I was self- 
employed. I started carpentry in '74, and I started with Crescent 
construction in '77. And we were all partners,  and it was a 
collective. And so I did a lot of the carpentry work and then a lot of 
the managerial work as well. Was that your question? I forgot your 
question, actually.  
Long: Well, when did the company— what were the dates? So '77 
through—. 
McIntosh:  Yeah. I think it probably started in '77, and then I left, I think the 
company actually disbanded in probably '83 or '84. And that was a 
direct result of the housing market. The housing— when we 
started, things were booming, and then the housing market— and I 
don't know if you remember in the '80s, it  just started crashing. It 
got more difficult to find work. I also kind of went, do I really want 
to be doing this when I'm fifty and sixty? Because it was physically 
hard work. I mean, and things are different now.  
 You look at carpentry now, I'm not even sure I can do carpentry 
now because it's all power tools and, I mean, we were putting 
everything together with hammers and nails, and it was difficult 
work. And you had to be able to carry a four by eight sheet rock, 
and put it over your head, and put it on a ceiling. I don't know if 
you've ever tried that, but it's incredibly hard. It was really 
physically hard work and I felt like I didn't want the uncertainty in 
my life of not knowing when my next job would come along, 
because that's how it was. I mean, there were times when I was out 
of work and  it was hard to pay my bills. I wanted something more  
steady in my life, so that's why I left, but I also think at that point 
the company was disbanding. We at one point did disband, and I 
can't remember, I mean, that was part of it, but I can't remember 
what else went on at that time.  
 And I know Rena continued on, and Nancy, as architects, and 
drafts people. And I think some of us did continue on in carpentry. 
And I did for myself. Actually I went on and did some jobs after 
that on my own. I take that back. Yeah, I actually did. I continued 
on. Built some buildings from the ground up, and that was one of 
my most proudest things for me, was that to just take a bare piece 
of land and I built a building from the ground up, and that was just 
so— it's incredible to be able to do that.  
Raiskin: Did you know about other women owned construction companies?  
McIntosh:  No. I didn't. And I brought you an article that was in the Oregonian  
about Crescent Construction that was written when we first started. 
And I didn't know about it. My mom saw it in the Oregonian  and 
sent it to me. But we were the first all-women’s  construction 
company to be licensed in the state of Oregon. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Do you know why it was called Crescent?  
McIntosh:  I think Rena picked the name. And we all liked it. I'll show you the 
card, but it's “Crescent,” and then we had a  crescent moon and 
“Construction” written down but I enjoyed the work. I like to be 
active, I like to be physical, I like hard work, I liked working with 
the women. I liked the challenge of it all. I liked the work. We did  
some beautiful work, and like I said, there's nothing like building 
something and then you can go back and it's still there. 
Raiskin: What was your living situation at the time?  
McIntosh:  I think during that time I was living by myself for most of that 
period, I think. I had separated from my first girlfriend in probably 
around '76. And I think I lived pretty much alone until '85 or so. 
But also during that time period, I also started at Amazon Kung Fu 
in December of '76.  
Long: You started Amazon Kung Fu?  
McIntosh:  I started training there. I didn't start  it. I started training there. And 
then— I also— the other thing I wanted to mention to you is in '77, 
I took a trip to Nepal, and I don't know if anyone's mentioned this 
to you, but it was the first all-women’s  trek to Mount Everest. And I 
have an incredible archive of that trip, and I would really love to do 
something with it at some point, but it was all women, we were the 
first all-women’s  track to Everest.  
 And I went as high as 22,500 feet without oxygen. And we spent a 
month getting to Mount Everest.  And the most physically hard 
thing I've ever done in my life, and one of the most rewarding and 
incredible experiences in my life because, I mean, I've been to 
Mount Everest, I've been in the Himalayas, and those mountains 
exude power. I mean, there's something totally incredible about 
them. That was another just incredible, incredible  experience for 
me.  
Raiskin: The women come from all over the country, or— 
McIntosh:  All over the world.  
Raiskin: —all over the world.  
McIntosh:  Yeah. Some of us met in New York, and then we met, the women 
coming from Europe, we met them in Germany and then flew into 
Nepal. We spent a few days in Kathmandu and then we took off 
and we walked. I mean, what was hard about it is it'd be like six 
hours straight up, eight hours straight down, six hours straight up. 
I mean, I brought some information about that trip, and I think we 
covered something like 120 miles of up and down in altitude and 
just getting over the foothills. But it was good because it 
declimatized us.  And not all of us made it. We had some people get 
very sick from altitude sickness, and I was suffering but I was able 
to make it, but it's an incredible story, and Ms. magazine sponsored 
us. 
Raiskin:  Wow.  
McIntosh:  And it's just an incredible story and I really wish that it would be 
told one day because it was— 
Raiskin: How did you hear about it?  
McIntosh:  It was interesting because I was between jobs, I was out of a job, 
and when I was out of a job in those days I used to like to go to the 
library and  just hang out and read. I was looking at this magazine 
and there was this little article in there that was talking about this  
little trip that was going to be planned to go to Nepal, this all 
women's trek to Nepal. And I just looked at that one, I'm going.  
 And the next day I got a job, and it all just came together. I had 
people loan me cameras, and equipment, because I really had no 
money. I was very poor in those days. And so it all came together, 
and I was able to— Air India at that time would loan you your 
ticket. So Air India, I got my ticket through Air India, and I had a 
year and a half to pay it  off. That was the only way I could go, 
because that was the big expense of the trip was the airplane ticket. 
Raiskin: And what year was that?  
McIntosh:  That was in '77, so I was twenty-seven  and I'm so glad I went then 
because Nepal was still very  innocent, and much purer culturally 
and the environment, and it was incredible. And I'm just really 
happy I went then, because Everest has really changed, and it was 
shortly after that that things really started changing there. And it 
was harrowing in ways. I mean, we were sleeping one night and 
they were bringing the German doctor down from Everest from the 
German expedition because he was basically dying of altitude 
sickness.  And I heard later that he survived because the only 
treatment is you just got to get down, and we had to send our 
people back too, but it was just incredible.  
Long: Did you get to the summit?  
McIntosh:  No. We just went to base camp—  
Long: Okay.  
McIntosh:  —and then we climbed Ama Dablam, which is right next to it. And 
we got to the summit of that, which was 2205.  
Long: Wow.  
McIntosh:  But I remember it to this day. I mean, it was like one step, take a 
breath, one step, take a breath, one step, take a breath. We got to 
the top, and then we started back down, and I'll never forget that 
experience. Because we just didn't even camp, we just went. We 
just kept going down in the far— because every step you went 
down was more oxygen, and it was like you were just flying. And it 
was an incredible experience, and I really enjoyed all the  women.  
Raiskin: And how many were you?  
McIntosh:  I think there was about ten of us or so. And the other thing really 
special about that trip is we were given women Sherpas as our 
guides, and that doesn't happen. And they actually carried— we 
had yaks, and they carried— I carried my gear too. I carried a fifty-
sixty  pound pack through this whole trip. And then we had yaks, 
and then the Sherpas, they carried the food, and tents, and stuff like 
that. But that was different too. That didn't happen at that time.  
Long: Did you take mountaineering lessons before you left?  
McIntosh:  No, I just went, and stupidly bought brand new boots before I 
went, and I had the worst blisters in the world. They actually ended 
up just duct taping my feet up for a month. And  that's how I got  
through, because my feet were just destroyed. And I lost thirty  
pounds. And it was an incredible experience. Incredible.  I have this 
massive slide collection of that trip and my journal, and just maps, 
and it was an incredible  experience.  
 I don't know how much you wanted to talk about that, but that was 
a big part of my experience at that time in my life. And then I came 
back to Eugene, and I was the woman who went to Nepal.  I had 
started at Amazon Kung Fu right before I left on that trip. And then 
I came back and just got really involved in Amazon Kung Fu from 
there. And then trained with them, got a black belt, and eventually 
became an instructor at the school. Yeah.  
Raiskin: How long were you an instructor there?   
McIntosh:  Have you talked to other people about Amazon Kung Fu yet, or do 
you have a little history— 
Long: Just a little bit.  
McIntosh:  —of that? Because Barbara Bones and Joyce Towne started Amazon 
Kung Fu. They were both black belts. And so I trained there for 
years with them, and then got my black belt, and then they left. 
They left the school, and it was actually turned over to Anne Moon. 
It went to Anne Moon. And then I think there was another 
instructor after that, and then me, and then Gladys  Campbell came 
after me as the head instructor of the school.   
 And then you should also know that there are two schools that 
came out of Amazon Kung Fu. I don't know if you're aware of that, 
but Hand to Hand in San Francisco, or Oakland, came out of 
Amazon Kung Fu, that was Colleen Gregin started that school. 
Colleen has passed and I'm very sorry that she can't be part of this 
project. And then Anne Moon started Seven Star in Seattle. So it 
was Amazon Kung Fu and two sister schools.  
 And we were all kajukenbo schools, and we would do regular 
trainings between the schools. And every year we would have a big 
kajukenbo conference and all the three schools would come 
together. And then there was also the Pacific Women's Martial Arts 
Association. And I don't know if you know about that, but that 
started in probably the late '70s, still is going strong. And they have 
a huge camp every year. They just had one this year.  
Raiskin: And where are they?  
McIntosh:  The camps are— 
Long:  No, the school.  
McIntosh:  It's an association of women martial artists— 
Raiskin: Okay.  
McIntosh:  —in the Pacific Northwest. I went to all those trainings as well. 
And those were amazing. You’d get 300 women together, all doing 
martial arts, and it was incredible. Just incredible. But, so I started 
out as  a student at Amazon Kung Fu, and eventually, like I said,  
got my black belt, but I also did a lot of self-defense  work in 
Eugene a lot. I taught a lot of children, women, people with 
disabilities. I did countless workshops, Take Back the Night, helped 
organize those. We did demonstrations all over Eugene. I brought 
you some pictures of the demonstration  we did— 
Long:  Okay.  
McIntosh:  —we did. And, I mean, we were just very active in the community 
and really out there.  
Raiskin: Was Nadia Kelsey's self-defense a different school?  
McIntosh:  Yeah. Nadia was karate. I think she started karate, and she was 
never a part of Amazon Kung Fu, but she was really a huge mover 
and shaker in this town in terms of self-defense. I've always really 
admired and respected Nadia for everything she's done around 
self-defense for women and children. So she was running 
workshops, I would help her sometimes, but I would just do other 
things through Amazon Kung Fu. And we would work together, I 
mean, but she really did a lot in terms of self-defense  for this 
community.  
 But yeah, I did a lot of that, too. And I was a safe house for a while. 
We had a system of safe houses in Eugene for a while, for domestic 
violence.  
Raiskin: Can you explain how that works?   
McIntosh:  Yeah. We had a system, and it was completely secret, private. It 
was a group of women, and we had ways to connect with each 
other. Basically, it would just be if there was an incident that 
needed to be addressed that one of us would  be notified that 
someone is being brought to your house. And so we'd given them a 
temporary shelter until we can sort out where to get them. It was 
basically to get them out of that immediate situation, and then we 
would go from there to get them the help  that they needed in other 
places.  
Raiskin:  How do they know who to call?  
McIntosh:  You know what? I don't remember that. It might've been through 
Rape Crisis Network. I brought you some of that information too, 
because I have some handouts from Rape— it might've been 
through Rape Crisis Network or through one of the hotlines in 
town or something.  
Raiskin: Was Womenspace open yet?  
McIntosh:  It might've been through Womenspace  because women's space was 
open. I don't remember that exactly. I do remember, I mean, I was a 
house and I remember getting calls and having people come to my 
home, but I really think someone else organized that and I just 
signed on as I can help with that. So I don't remember.  
Long: What was it like when you would get the calls?   
McIntosh: Awful. I mean, awful. And it was children sometimes too, women 
and children, but it was at that point in Eugene, there were 
resources, and places to go, and ways to get help. And like I said, I 
brought you a few of those little pamphlets and that sort of thing. I 
was glad to be part of that, but really it was just safety. And with 
my background I could help, and so.  
Raiskin: Can you describe a typical weekend for yourself in those days?  
McIntosh:  Well, I'd work probably during the week, and weekend was just 
time to have fun. I mean, it was a very vibrant community, you got 
a lot of parties, and I loved music, I loved going out and going to 
the bars, and I would try and get some exercise and I'd do 
something, a hike or something over the weekend. And— 
Raiskin: Were you off softball team, or?  
McIntosh:  I played softball. Yeah, I played softball. That would go on on the 
weekends. I just hung out with my friends and just had a good 
time, and it was just a great place to be. It was an incredible— just a  
great place to be. I mean, I just had so much fun at  that time in my 
life in Eugene.  But I was also really into hiking, and I also brought 
you a little article out of the WomanSpirit  magazine. There was a 
group of women in, I think it was probably '73, '74, we climbed 
Broken Top, which is in the Sisters range. And it was a group of 
women who had never mountain climbed before, never did 
anything like that before. And it was organized by a woman named 
Charlotte Mills. Charlotte organized us, and we had to hike in, so  
backpacked in, and then climbed this mountain. And there's an 
article about it, and it's really interesting because women hadn't 
done this before and it was so empowering for so many women. 
And I remember getting to the top and before you get to the very 
top there's this little, it's only about this wide, this little rock thing 
you had to pass to get across to get to the top. And it was a straight 
drop off on both sides. And I said, "I don't care, I'm going to sit 
down."  I sat down and scooted myself across that, and then got up. 
And there was actually a couple of women that didn't really want 
even to go across it, but again, that's what it was. It was just, if you 
could think it, and you could do it, and there'd be other people who 
could do  it with you, and let's go do this. And it was just— I visit 
southern Oregon a lot, visit friends at the coast. And so it was 
just— 
Raiskin: You visited people on women's land?  
McIntosh:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Who did you visit down there?  
McIntosh:  I really didn't know a lot of the women there. I would just go down 
to visit, I knew Lina  and I would just go to visit and hang out. But 
yeah, just a lot going on. But you would find me a lot of times, 
yeah, backpacking, hiking, climbing a mountain, playing softball.  
Raiskin: And where were you living? Did you say that?   
McIntosh:  Let's see. At that point I was living— well, I lived with Judy 
Goldstein for a while, and that was fun because Judy and I, we'd 
go— Judy was training at the time, and then obviously we'd go to 
class, we'd train, we'd come home, we always had brown rice and 
mozzarella cheese on top, every meal after we would go training 
that's what we'd eat, and sit around and talk about class.  
 I lived with Judy for part of that, and then I moved. I lived in these 
two little houses. One is over on Ash street down by the Rose 
Garden. And it was just this teeny little house. I lived there. And 
then I lived with Judy, and then I moved to a teeny little house on 
Rasor Avenue, which is, do you know where that is? Front of the 
bike path right towards River Road. I lived there, and before that I 
think I lived in a home with other women. But yeah, I don't 
remember exactly where.  
Raiskin:  So what work did you do after Crescent Construction folded?  
McIntosh: Well, I worked on my own for a little bit as a carpenter, like I said, 
and then I decided to change directions. Then I started getting 
involved in sports medicine, and I actually spent about two years 
trying to figure out what I wanted to do, and I  would job shadow 
people, and I would look at all these jobs and I would figure out 
what I wanted to do. But you know what I really wanted to do? I 
wanted to be a paramedic, and I couldn't get into a school because I 
was a female.   
 And at that time I applied to so many schools and I was denied 
admission over and over and over. And because at that time what 
they were taking were Vietnam vets, the paramedics out of 
Vietnam. And those were the people who were going into 
paramedic school. And so I never did get into a school, and then I 
really didn't want to be an EMT, so I narrowed it down to physical 
therapy, and I'm a certified athletic trainer. I don't say athletic 
trainer because no one knows what that is. Do you know what 
athletic trainer is?  
 When I say I'm an athletic trainer you think I trained dogs, or I'm a 
coach or something like that, but it's sports medicine. We did all the 
medical care.  I started getting into that, and then I actually started 
my student training. I had to do 400 hours to get into graduate 
school. I went to U of O, and in the old PE buildings. I forgot to 
mention, I also played softball for U of O, Becky Sisley was my 
coach. I don't know if anyone's talked about Becky Sisley, but yeah, 
I played for Becky in U of O. I think that— 
Raiskin: Did you know Peg Rees when you were here?  
McIntosh:  That  name sounds really familiar. Yeah. But I spent a lot of time in 
that part of the campus. Anyway, I originally did my student 
hours, and I think you've talked to Janet Anderson? So Janet was 
my supervisor out at Lane, and then I spent time at Sheldon High 
School as well. I did my student hours there. And then I got into 
graduate school. I was in graduate school, I went back to graduate 
school at thirty-three. And then I was in graduate school, and that  
became my new career. But I also, during that time, I would do 
workshops on martial arts injuries, and I had to do a human 
movement analysis. I did it on a forward punch.  
 I started really expanding into the medical aspect of martial  arts as 
well. And I'd been medical staff at a lot of the big martial arts, what 
do you call them? Conferences. I really started shifting gears away 
from carpentry and more into sports medicine and that field. The 
other thing I forgot to mention  was I also took a trip, did you talk to 
Janet Anderson about the trip to Russia?  
Raiskin:  Not yet.  
McIntosh:  Okay. So in 1987, my partner and I went with Janet as a citizen 
diplomat to Russia. And it was for the Women's Peace Conference 
that was held in Moscow in 1987, and that was incredible. All I 
wanted to let you know is if you talk to Janet, and if you get any 
archive for that trip, I have so much stuff. Again, I have hundreds 
of slides, I have all this— What was fascinating for me is I picked  
up all this literature from all these other countries about peace. And 
it's just fascinating to go back and look at all that now. I have all of 
that as well. And so if you, I don't know if you end up ever doing 
anything or want anything for that, I brought a little bit of it today, 
but I have so much more. But I'll let Janet talk about that trip 
primarily, but it was an amazing experience for me as well. And as 
part of that, so a spin off from that, Janet invited athletes, soviet 
athletes to the United States, and I hosted them in Portland, 
because I was working in Jefferson High School in Portland at that  
time. And so I hosted them at Jeff, and it was great. They had a 
great time. I had a great time.  
 And I just showed them around Portland, but the athletes at 
Jefferson High School love meeting Soviet athletes. And so that was 
great. So I worked with Janet on that as well. But yeah, and then I 
just really started shifting gears and that became, I went to school, 
graduated, got my master's degree and took off from there. And 
then I had a thirty-five year career in sports medicine.  
Raiskin: What were you doing at the Jefferson high school?  
McIntosh:  Well, I was their head athletic trainer. And again, athletic trainer, I 
was head of their sports medicine program, so I was responsible for 
medical care of all the high school athletes. And it's an incredible 
job because I spent thirty  years at Pacific University, and I spent 
twenty-five years as the head of their sports medicine program, and 
basically developed the whole program. And then I had an 
internship program for students to get certified as athletic trainers. 
I did that as well.  
 But I was responsible for hundreds of athletes, their lives, every 
single day. And I worked seven days a week, and I was on call 
twenty-four  hours a day. And it was a grueling job. But I loved it, 
and I loved the athletes. I loved the students. I just retired and 
that's what I miss. I miss the students. I mean, because I love them. 
I'd love that age. I love that energy. I just love who they are.   
 I started out in high school athletic training, and actually, I should 
back up a little because my first job, I got a GTF, a fellowship. I was 
an athletic trainer at Springfield High School for a year and then—. 
Raiskin: Did you ever worry working in education about being out as a 
lesbian?  
McIntosh:  I really kept that out of my work because of where I worked, 
especially early on,  I really just kept that separate from my work 
unless I was making friends with a colleague or something. I mean, 
my colleagues knew, but I really didn't really discuss it much with 
the athletes. I just really kept it out of that. And again, just because 
of the nature of the job really. And I just, I don't know, it just didn't 
go there—.  
Raiskin: You weren't worried about being out with your colleagues?  
McIntosh:  No. I worked with some really pretty awful coaches and I wasn't 
going to discuss that with them, but there were people at work that 
I— in fact, my supervisors in both of my jobs were gay, so it was 
fine, but I really didn't really go there with the athletes too much. 
But I loved it. It was a great job. I did that for twenty-five years,  
and then we started a master's program at Pacific in the health 
professions campus in athletic training. They came and hired me 
out of the basement and made me a professor.  
 I ended my career as a professor at the health professions campus, 
and best job in my life. I loved it, because I helped start the 
program. There was no program. I was hired to help start the  
program. And I was responsible for the clinical part of it. I mean, I 
taught, but the clinical education was my baby. I got to develop 
that from the ground up. And it was incredible. Because of my 
connections I was able to get contracts with the Winter Hawks and 
the Thorns, and the Timbers, and all the Portland schools.  
 I had contracts with all the schools in the area. I was able to put all 
my students into these great, and all the small colleges, Lewis and 
Clark and George Fox. And just even— let's see, I even had a 
student up with the Seattle Storm, and so it was wonderful. And if 
a student had an interest, I was able to put something together for 
them. I had a student who was interested in dance, working in 
dance medicine. I was able to set that up. But it was great. I loved it.  
I had a great time and it was a wonderful way to end my career, 
and a wonderful way to retire.  
Raiskin:  What is the training that the student gets in— 
McIntosh:  In a program?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
McIntosh:  It's very heavily based in science, anatomy, physiology, 
biomechanics, kinesiology, nutrition, sports psych, emergency care. 
We're the people who run out on the field, when you see somebody 
get injured on the field, that was me.  
Raiskin:  Okay.   
McIntosh:  So, really heavy training in emergency care. I was responsible for 
all on field, anything that happened on field, so really focused on 
medicine. They even get pharmacology. And then a lot of it's based 
on hours, just putting in hours. I had to do 1,500 hours to get my 
degree on top of my 400 that I'd already done of just experience to 
get to get my degree.  It's really based on experience and it's intense, 
and it's interesting because people really don't know about us, or 
know what we do. I don't ever say I'm an athletic trainer. I just say 
I'm sports medicine, but that's not really my degree. I'm a certified 
athletic trainer, but a great career and a great way to retire. And I 
have all these students out there now that, I mean, I have hundreds 
of students out there who are practicing and doing great. And 
that's just a joy for me, and that we're still in touch. I have one call 
me yesterday actually, and— 
 But I loved my mentors. When I was starting out, Lou Osternig  was 
my mentor, and I love that guy, and I would still call him  years 
later to help me out. I'm happy to do that for students now.  
Raiskin: What are your plans in retirement?  
McIntosh:  Well, I just retired. Well, I retired, I bought a house. Well, actually I 
didn't buy a house right away. I just bought a house a year ago and 
it needed a remodel, so that was getting done, and I'm just settling 
into my new home, and just  figuring out what I want to do now. 
I— 
Raiskin: Did you move from where you were living in the middle of town?   
McIntosh:  I was living in Forest Grove.  
Raiskin: And you're still living in Forest Grove?  
McIntosh:  And I'm still living in Forest Grove. Yeah.   
Raiskin: And do you have a community there?  
McIntosh:  No, not really. Not too much of one. I mean, I have my friends, and 
my family's there, but no, it was never much of a community in 
Forest Grove. I actually moved there. When I started at Pacific, I 
was living in Portland, and then the commute just got to be too 
much, and so then  we moved out to Forest Grove.  
 And the other thing you wanted to talk to me about was being a 
mom. And we haven't talked about that, but so in 1979, my friend 
Anne Moon had Nilda  and I was actually— Anne is a friend of 
mine who— she rode her bicycle here  from New York with Colleen 
Gregin, they rode from New York to Eugene, to move to— and 
they're both martial artists, and so I knew them through martial 
arts. I knew Anne Moon, and she's my friend, and so she was 
pregnant.  I was playing cards with her when she went into labor.  
 And it was really interesting because it became this community 
event, this birth of this child. I left for a while, and it was at home, it 
was a home birth with a midwife. And I left for a while and I came 
back and I couldn't get in the house. There were so many people, 
and the midwife is like, "No, there's enough people in here already. 
No, you're not coming in."   
 I was like, okay. So anyway, the long story short is Nilda  ended up 
having to be born at the hospital. I became one to Nilda's moms, 
because I talked earlier about how we were just reinventing 
everything, doing everything differently, and so here's Anne Moon 
with her new baby. And so her plan is I'm going to have a 
community of women to help me raise Nilda. I was one of those 
people, so I'm one of Nilda's moms. I'm still her mom, and she's 
going to be forty  next year. And my daughter and her consider 
themselves sisters.  
 That was a wonderful thing. I loved being a mom to Nilda. And, I 
mean, I spent a lot of time with Nilda, very young, and I would 
take her over to the coast, and she'd spend the night with me, and I 
hung out with her a lot. And it was a really, really great thing for 
me and a really great bond that I have with Nilda. And I was just so 
glad to be part of that experience. I'd always wanted to have 
children.  I always wanted to be a mom my entire life, wasn't sure 
how that was going to happen. But then I adopted my daughter, 
my partner and I adopted our daughter, and she was born in 1994, 
and so we adopted her when she was eleven  months old.  
Raiskin: How did that adoption work out?  
McIntosh:  Well, it had to be a single parent adoption. My partner adopted and 
then we were the first lesbian couple in Multnomah County to 
adopt. I was the first person to adopt another child.  
Long: As a second parent?   
McIntosh:  As a second parent. Yeah.  
Long:  Oh, cool.  
McIntosh:  That was really cool. So she, yeah, so we went through the 
adoption process after they got back  from— because Kelly actually 
went to China to get Olivia, and brought Olivia back, and— 
Long: What was the agency that you used?  
McIntosh:  Journeys of the Heart, which  is an agency up in Hillsboro. Olivia 
was born in January of 1994. And, like I said, she was eleven  
months old, and she's now twenty-four  and just finished her— 
she’s  a speech language pathologist, and she just graduated and 
just got her first job. So she's working with Salem-Keizer School 
District, and just moved into a little apartment, and left home, and 
is working now.  
Raiskin: And so did she grew up in Forest Grove?  
McIntosh:  Yes. Well, we lived in Portland initially and then when she was 
four we  moved to Forest Grove. She grew up there.  
Raiskin: Do you have sense of  what it was like for her to grow up with two 
moms in Forest Grove?  
McIntosh:  I think the bigger issue for her was being Asian in Forest Grove. 
That was the bigger issue. And sometimes I wonder about that 
decision to do that, but she was one of two Asians kids, and so I 
think that was hard for her. But she's a very resilient, very tough  
kid, and she made friends, and made her life, and I think she did 
okay. But I think that there were times it was hard for her. I mean, 
she would come home and talk about things at different times. 
Because I think Forest Grove is— it's not the most enlightened place 
in terms of race, I don't think. So I think that was probably the 
bigger issue, because what would happen is the friends that she 
would make would be totally fine with our family. And we did 
make a lot of friends, and we had a community.  
 And the other thing that was interesting is we started this 
playgroup when Olivia was one. We started this little playgroup of 
all these other families who had adopted from China. And that 
playgroup exists to this day. We still get together for holidays and 
we go camping. And so the girls are all now in their, they're all 
twenty, twenty-four, twenty-five. And it's been amazing to watch 
all of them grow up and what they've gone on to do. But I loved 
being a mom. I love being a mom to Nilda, I love being a mom to 
Olivia. And I liked that part of my life a lot. It something I always 
wanted, and I was really happy that that could happen.  
Raiskin: And Nilda  and Olivia spent a lot of  time together. They knew each 
other.  
McIntosh:  They know each other. Well, Nilda  is much older.  
Raiskin: Yeah. Right.   
McIntosh:  Nilda's forty, but yeah, Nilda  would come stay with us and Nilda  
wasn't too sure about the whole thing when we decided to adopt  
Olivia though, because— 
Long: Was a little jealous.  
McIntosh:  —she'd always been the baby, but it all worked out. They're sisters 
and they're— Nilda's in Seattle, but they regularly communicate. 
And— 
Raiskin: Have you taught your carpentry, self-defense, or sports medicine 
skills to either of them?  
McIntosh:  Well, when Olivia was younger I actually had a martial arts class 
for kids in my garage, and that went on for a while. And then I 
realized she's not too interested, so we let go of that. But she grew 
up in my training room. She grew up in the athletic training room. 
She grew up around all those athletes, she grew up around— She 
would go in and— I don't know how much you know about our 
work and what we do, but we use a lot of tape. And so she'd go in 
that train room and wrap herself all up in tape and pre-wrap. But 
by about age six, she was working, I had her making  ice bags and 
filling water bottles. And then by eight or nine she could wrap ice 
bags on the athletes, and she was working. She just would come in 
and help me out, and she loved it there. The athletes loved her, she 
loved them, and I thought for a while she might go into the athletic 
training field, but she ended up going into SLP instead. But she 
loved it and I think she would have been great at athletic train,  
because she has the kind of personality that would be great for that.  
But she totally grew up around sports medicine. And she's an 
athlete herself, and so I became her personal— yeah, she  ran cross 
country for Linfield and Pacific, and so she's a runner. And so we 
would have lots of conversations about how to take care of herself, 
and how to take care of her injuries, and so I took care of her as 
well.  
Raiskin: Did you and your partner ever get married?  
McIntosh:  No, we didn't because we actually separated. We were together 
thirty  years and just separated about two years ago, but we are 
friends. We live across the street from each other and it's really nice 
for Olivia because she can just come home and see us. And so that 
worked out. But yeah, that was a difficult thing. But I think that— 
Raiskin: Do you care to talk about how that came to be, the separation?  
McIntosh:  Yeah. I mean, I think really what I will just say, I mean, like I said, 
Kelly was only twenty-nine  when we got together, and I'm older, 
I'm six years older. And I think it just became— I just realized the 
partnership wasn't working. And I think Kelly just wanted more of 
an independent life, and maybe because she felt, I think she felt like 
she never really had that, and that was something she really 
wanted. That's what happened. And we don't hate each other, it's 
just what happened. But I'm glad that we are being able to work it 
out and stay together, especially for Olivia, and we never really 
involved Olivia in anything negative around it. And she always  
knows she's got her two moms, and we're there for her, both of us. 
And it's funny because she was like this mom is it this week, and 
then this mom is it this week. And she did that a lot growing up, 
but we're both very committed to her and are parenting her, and 
we always have been. And, yeah. And we've always really felt like 
we were great parents together because we had really some things 
that complemented each other. We feel very, very proud of what 
we did there, and raising our daughter, and we'll continue to be 
there for her. And yeah, we both live— like I said, we live across 
the street. We live in a fifty-five plus community across the street 
from each other, because it's interesting.  
 I mean, it was really hard for me because we owned a home in the 
old town Forest Grove and sold it. And in this economy I couldn't 
afford to buy a home, and it was really hard for me as a native 
Oregonian, I worked here all my  life and  not be able to afford a 
home— so, I could  afford.  
Raiskin:  But you built the homes.  
McIntosh:  Yeah. I built them, can't afford them. But so I ended up in this 
situation. I'm quite happy there, but I travel a lot these days. I have 
an RV, and I travel, and I'm active, I'm busier than ever and, yeah.  
Raiskin: Is there anything we haven't covered that you think is important?  
McIntosh:  I forgot to mention, too. I started to talk about getting more 
involved in the medical— doing the martial arts injury workshops  
and that sort of thing, but I also became involved with Shooting 
Stars. Have you talked to anyone from Shooting— 
Raiskin: Mm-mm [negative].  
McIntosh:  Shooting Stars is the women's wheelchair basketball team, and 
yeah, I don't if you've ever  talked to some of them, but,  I got 
involved with them and as their medical person, and it was so cool 
because I would go to practice and they would put me in a 
wheelchair. Have you ever played wheelchair basketball? It is 
really, really, really hard. I would practice, and I would always be 
the one falling over in the wheelchair, and having to get up.  But I 
loved my time with them. I loved working with them. It really 
helped me in terms of my education about how to work with 
people with disabilities, and because it's obviously very different, 
so it was a great experience for me. I got to go to the national 
tournament with them, and I actually have a program from the 
national tournament, and they call me their trainer and their 
bodyguard. And so that  was a wonderful experience. I traveled 
with all those women down to San Diego and got to be at the 
tournament, and we went over to Tijuana one day, but it was a 
wonderful experience.  
 I've just been happy that I can take my skills and just use them in 
lots of different ways, even my carpentry skills, I mean, I've done 
stuff for myself and other people, but to just make it all work in lots 
of different settings for lots of different people, I've really enjoyed  
that. Other than that I don't think so. I have my little cheat sheet 
here, but— 
 Oh, the other thing I did as well. Do you know Twinkle Morton? 
Twinkle Morton was in charge of the tutoring services at U of O for 
athletes. I worked my way through graduate school as a tutor for 
athletes who had graduated from high school and were here, and 
some of them can barely read or write. And it really upset me 
because it was like, so you've used this person in your high school 
and your schooling as your athlete, and you're representing your 
school, but you never educated them and you never made sure that 
they got an education, and you never made sure that they  actually, 
yeah, I mean, it  was really upsetting to me. I'm here teaching, I was 
supposed to be tutoring them in anatomy and physiology, but 
actually I'm tutoring them and writing and reading. And then, so I 
did that in graduate school and work for Twinkle, and I really 
enjoyed that as well. That was a good experience for me as well, 
but it really opened my eyes to the athletic world. And the athletic 
world is really interesting.  
 I actually went to a national convention of athletic trainers in 1987 
and was told by the president of the association that women would 
never be allowed in professional sports because we couldn't handle 
the language, and we couldn't handle seeing men, nude men, in the 
locker rooms. Well, I've had a career in athletic training and I've 
been just fine. That was the attitude, but it's interesting because 
now women make up the highest percentage of athletic trainers  
now.  That was a male profession and I had— again, like the 
carpentry, I had to break into that profession. It was male 
dominated, and male controlled, and women were trying to break 
into that. And they have, but there are still no women athletic 
trainers in professional sports. I mean, I think there might be an 
assistant in basketball or something, but—  
 That world hasn't really changed a lot. And I've been in it thirty-
five years, and it's still a pretty male controlled and dominated, but 
women are really making a lot of inroads into that profession as 
well. I've just always been a person who if you told me I can't do it, 
I'm going to do it. That's how I've lived my life basically. You tell 
me I can't do it, I'm going to do it. If I want to do it, I'm going to  do 
it, and I'm going to make it happen. It's one way or another.  
Raiskin: Is there some advice that you would give to a young person who's 
watching this, from the experience of your life?  
McIntosh:  Probably one of the biggest things I would say is be true to 
yourself. Be true to yourself and know yourself. And what I just 
said, go for it. I mean, if there's something you want to do, go for it. 
Don't let people tell you can't do it, don't— and you're going to run 
into roadblocks, you're going to run into setbacks. You're going to 
run into people who don't want you to succeed, then you're going 
to run into people who do want you to succeed, but just don't give 
up. Just go it. Just do it.   
 And think big. That's the other thing. I always just thought big. It 
was like going to Nepal. If I saw that, I knew I was going to do that, 
and that's how I have done my life. It's like I want to do, I'm going 
to do it in one way or another, and now I haven't been able to do 
everything I wanted to do in my life, obviously, but just don't take 
no for an answer. Just go for it. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Thanks so much.  
McIntosh:  You bet. Thank you. How'd we do on time? I felt like I was talking 
forever.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  