
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Paula Jo Vaden on November 3, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Paula Jo, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project, and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Vaden:  Indeed.  
Long:  Thank you very much. Why don't we just start with a basic 
question. Can you please tell us where and when you were born, 
and something about your early years?  
Vaden:  I was born in Las Vegas, Nevada in 1953. I've been through many 
bomb scares living sixty  miles from the Nevada test site. Growing 
up, I had  an epiphany is what I've always called it, but I had an 
occurring, something, where it seriously— the thunder crashed. 
Seriously, and it scared me to death, and I huddled in a little rose 
bush. I lived on Glider Street, because there's a number of homes in 
my life, but Glider Street. I looked up into the sky and there was 
this giant face staring at me and I can't tell you that that was God, 
but I can tell you it was serious and I've always interpreted it as the 
day that I was assigned what I was to do in my life, and here was 
my path.  
Raiskin:  How old were you?  
Vaden:  Four. And I knew I had some different feelings at that time. This 
was an awareness brought on by this— ckkkksh! But definitely by 
the time I was in first grade, I was having major palpitations for 
Patty Osuna, I'm telling you. So the path wasn't wrong, so I'm on it, 
so here we go. Yeah, so that was first grade and went through a lot 
of crushes up to sixth grade, so that was grammar school right 
there.   
Raiskin:  So did you feel that that face, that presence, protected you in this or 
was supporting you?  
Vaden:  Yeah, because it didn't do, "This is what you have to do." I wasn't 
getting that. I was getting this  [opens arms out]. I was getting just 
a— I'll call it neutral. It was neutral and it was just more of a gift 
perhaps, because it wasn't something that I should fear, but it was 
something that I had to keep to myself for a long time, because that 
kind of stuff you don't talk about because people will get you for 
stuff like that.  
Raiskin:  So you knew that people were opposed to your crushes on girls, 
that it wasn't something to—  
Vaden:  Yeah. Yeah. At that time, I had three older brothers and I have five 
brothers, two younger. But the three older, by the time, I don't 
know, I was twelve  years old, we were living at what we called the 
two-story house. My mom was in the hospital and my dad and 
three older brothers were sitting on the couch and I had just taken a 
bath and I combed my hair like theirs. I walked into the living 
room with my hair like theirs and I took on an awkward silence, 
and I can't tell you how they looked at me, but they looked at me. I 
just kind of shrugged it off, turned around, and went and did 
whatever else to my hair. But yeah, that was kind of like, "Well, 
here I am and I'm with you guys." And then we get a hunting dog 
and I get to name him Butch. Well, now you can call me Butch. 
Those  brothers could call me Butch. My dad would tell me I was  
squirrely. He'd call me squirrely. So that was junior high kind of 
era.  
Raiskin:  What kind of jobs did your parents have there?  
Vaden:  My dad was a roofer until he became the business agent for the 
roofers' local union there in Las Vegas. We lived in an area— it was 
called North Las Vegas. It was an awesome place, lots of places to 
play, lots of things going on. But let's see, I don't want to get off of 
what I was on a moment ago.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, you were in junior high.  
Vaden:  Yeah, okay. Oh yeah, it was a great long story, but in a nutshell, I 
impersonated two of my cousins from England to these girls that I 
had crushes on. So longer story short, the last day, I had my 
brother's clothes on and I had on sunglasses and I walked one of 
my friends when I was me, walked her home in my cousin's 
clothes. And when I left her to go in her house, I turned around and 
there was an entire circle of people that were just going to kick my 
ass. I got out. I got out. I had been lucky in that way, but I got out 
unscathed, but not, however, humiliated until I left that 
neighborhood so to speak. But that was— 
Raiskin:  And they were going to beat you up because you were dressed in 
boys' clothes?  
Vaden:  Yeah, and that I had been carrying on this charade being these two 
other people. It was beyond fantasy. I mean, that's what drove it.  
I'm sure whatever it was, it was a little out of balance, but I am who 
I am today because of it, sure. Sure. It was good.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any relationships in middle school or high school?  
Vaden:  Yeah. They were more like girl friendships where you're going to 
go make out with this curious one or that curious one, et cetera. 
And I could take advantage of that because I knew that's exactly 
what was going on. That's what I was doing. "Oh God, they want to 
kiss and so do I," kind of thing. But it was creepy. By the time I got 
into high school, I thought I had a girlfriend and I scared her. I 
scared her and had felt creeped out by it. I felt creepy about it. She 
didn't want to be as intense about being a girlfriend as I was being 
and had no other way to know until she cried and then I— 
[mumbles]. 
 It's all in the learning. It's all in the growing up. This is part of my 
character. I can either be like this or I can— but go. Go on that path 
nonetheless.  
Raiskin:  Did you find any other girls who identified as lesbians in high 
school?  
Vaden:  Let's say not that we could talk about, because I thought that gym 
teacher was. I had two gym teachers in junior high school that took 
me out to go chopping wood one weekend with them. I thought, 
"Okay, Mrs. Grigsby and Mrs. Poppins," or whatever her name 
was, "Oh yeah." It was there, it was just kind of a [puts hand over 
mouth]  kind of a thing.   
Raiskin:  The negative ideas about being a lesbian, did you get those from 
family or from religion or from general culture?  
Vaden:  I could say general culture, but the pinhead would be I knew I was 
different and I was uncomfortable all the time. The one visual that 
was a constant for me as a kid walking down Main Street was to be 
shot.  
Raiskin:  You were afraid you'd be shot?  
Vaden:  Yeah. But—  
Raiskin:  Because you were different?  
Vaden:  Yeah. And people had called me a dyke and this, that, and the 
other thing. But lovingly, my brothers were calling me Butch, 
knowingly and accepting me. But we still— it wasn't a part of 
everyday, "Oh yeah, it's okay. She's a big gay girl and la, la, la." It 
wasn't happening like that, but stay to that path, do what you 
know.  
Raiskin: What was your parents' attitude?  
Vaden:  When I was sixteen, I had been outside. My mom said, "Come on in 
the house. I want to talk to you for a moment." And so I went and I 
sat down at the dining room table and she looks at me and she 
goes, "Is there  anything you want to talk about?" And I stood 
straight up and I said, "Nope," and I walked right back out that 
door. No, we weren't going to talk about that that day. Little did I  
know, she was open to it, and I didn't know that until my youngest 
brother— who is also gay.  
 So high school, I really didn't know anybody. I would go or I 
wouldn't go. I had some friends to hang out with, always getting 
by by the skin of my teeth, as mom would say. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did you graduate high school?  
Vaden:  No.  
Raiskin: So when you were sixteen, did you start spending time with people 
outside of school more?  
Vaden:  Yes. Yes. Yeah. They made me. No, they didn't. They didn't at all. I 
was so totally not into going to school. And then there were riots in 
my high school, and so that was a time when it was okay to not go. 
I mean, my mom actually kept me home from school one day 
because of the riots. I'm like, "Well, that was big."  
Raiskin:  What year was that?  
Vaden:  Sixty-eight, '69. Oh, '69, '70, up into '71.  
Raiskin:  And what were the riots about?  
Vaden:  The Blank Panther Party was happening, so all politics. And we're 
just right across California, Las Vegas, and so there's this big 
influence going on, and I'm quite ignorant of the influence that's 
happening. So in my own little world as being on campus with all 
these people, it was apparently because Lonnie Wright, the black  
basketball player, was being boyfriends with Mickie Angel, who 
was a white cheerleader. And now— we're going to clash in the 
bathrooms, we're going to burn up cars, we're going to turn them 
over. People shooting the hallway, and that's when they started 
chaining down the garbage cans because people couldn't throw 
them. Yeah, teachers got hurt, people got hurt. And cops are there 
in riot gear every morning. Somebody hollers, "Stop!" and a kid 
turns around and here's this big old freaking pistol in his 
waistband. So yeah, it was dangerous. But the times, they were a 
changing, if there was a song to go there.  
Raiskin:  Speaking of which, were you doing music when you were a young 
child?  
Vaden:  Yeah, I did. There was this little organ. It was called a Belvedere 
and it had some cool button chord sounds over here and it had 
keys over here, and I could find three chords and play something. 
And then by the time I was sixteen, I had bought my first guitar. 
My dad had had a guitar and so I tried to put some baling wire and 
fishing string on it to play it. I mean, I was hard up for playing this 
guitar. Didn't work, didn't sound right. But my brother, Chas, went 
to the ENT  drugstore and bought my first set of guitar strings and I 
knew of an open tuning, and so now I have three chords. Three 
chords, you can play whatever you want to play on three chords. 
Off from there.  
 So as much as Mom might go, "Why do you have to play that 
thing?" When there became a drunken party at the house, they're  
like, "Paula, go get your guitar," kind of thing. But I was going to 
play anyway. By the time I was seventeen, I had played a 
Opportunity Village benefit at the Stardust Hotel in one of their 
banquet rooms, and that was one of my first real gigs. I always 
sang in choir or some little ensemble like that. In high school, we 
had gone over to the junior high school and I was to do a solo of 
“Proud Mary” that day, and so I was pretty jazzed, pretty nervous. 
The choir's down there part of the show and I go to take off my 
choir robe and— I'm kind of a frumpy person at that time and you 
had to wear a dress, and that made me even more frumpy. I didn't 
like it. But anyway, that's what was happening.  
 So I get up there and I hear a lot of— going on and— that kind of 
energy. So, what the hell, I'm going to do my thing. I did my thing 
and I got the best response. So okay, we're doing what we're 
supposed to be doing. This is good. And then—  
Raiskin:  What kind of music did you like?  
Vaden:  Did I like at the time?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Vaden:  I liked gospel music. I liked rock and roll. I learned the most of 
what I learned on guitar at first off of the two albums, Tea for the 
Tillerman, Cat Stevens, and Tapestry, Carole King. Those were the 
two most influential records I ever had in my life.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a band?   
Vaden:  We had our “pot and pan” ensembles. Literally. You've seen in the 
cartoons where the pan lid is hanging from a tree and you've got 
the little garbage can with the foot hooper on it. It's happening. You 
got a stick in the ground with a beer can on it for a microphone, a 
plastic five-cent harmonica, whatever. But before I had a guitar— I 
was just remembering before I had my dad's guitar, I would nail a 
pie tin to a stick. And in the front yard, we had ivy vines, we had 
ivy, and I would take the leaves off of those and I would nail them 
to that stick and that pan and have my banjo. It was my ivy banjo.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet other kids to play with?  
Vaden:  Other kids just want to play. They weren't hard to find, but then I 
lived in a neighborhood full of kids and somebody was always into 
playing something. Hide-and-seek, army, play music. Play music. 
So that was at the two-story house when we started having our first 
pot and pan ensembles. And then by the time we got out, I was 
fifteen. Maybe we had a little more— yeah, well, sixteen  anyway, 
because I had an actual electric guitar at sixteen. We put together 
some little deal called— we were “Top Drawer,” that's who we 
were. I don't really remember what songs we sang, but yeah.  
 Wow, yeah, that brings backs a lot of memories because I'm going, 
God, clear back in junior high school playing the Monkees with my 
friends in junior high school. Yeah, I played a lot of music in some 
way shape or form or other. Absolutely. Choir was always best.   
Raiskin:  When you left school, did that open up music for you or did you 
lose opportunities?  
Vaden:  Yeah, actually. When I left school, six months later or so, I was 
living with my friends Tim and Michelle and their two children, 
and Tim had a guitar and he had a reel-to-reel that he brought back 
from Vietnam. And so we would sit there and do reel-to-reel, 
record whatever songs. He had a lot of Dylan music. That's what he 
knew a lot of, but he was just a gas to play with. Another  adult 
person to sit here and play music with was just great.  
Raiskin:  And what were you doing for work?  
Vaden:  At that time, I was working as a courtesy clerk for Safeway, 
bagging groceries and things of that nature. I had been a motel 
maid at one other  time and I got to work at Western Cabinetry for a 
while when the MGM Grand was being built. We were building the 
gaming tables that would go into the MGM at that time.  
Raiskin:  How long did you stay in Las Vegas?  
Vaden:  Until I was going on nineteen. Then Tim and Michelle said, "Well, 
we're going to Oregon. You want to go?" I said, "Yeah." I drove a 
'56 Chevy Nomad with Michelle and the kids and Tim had the U-
Haul.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about Oregon?  
Vaden:  Not a damn thing. I didn't even know there were trees until I hit 
that border and I'm like, "Oh my Lord." I'd never seen such a thing.  
You go to Mt. Charleston, you go skiing up there, whatever, but 
yeah. Those trees were like— that’s  just another planet. That was 
devastating.  
Raiskin:  Did you like it?  
Vaden:  Devastatingly wonderful.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, you liked it.  
Vaden:  Yeah. It was incredible. I love the desert, don't get me wrong. But 
yeah, those trees— yeah. That was exciting.  
Raiskin:  I don't think I caught— who  were the family that you were living 
with? Tim—  
Vaden:  The Bowens. Tim and Michelle and their two daughters.  
Raiskin:  How did you get with them?  
Vaden:  I was a Bahá'í person for about a minute until they told me they 
didn't like gay people  and I went, "Well, okay." But Tim and 
Michelle didn't have a problem with it. So I had to—  
Raiskin:  So they were in the Bahá'í church?  
Vaden:  Yeah. Oh, and I had met Seals and Crofts during that time, just 
briefly. My friend Benny, he was a trumpet player at The Sands, 
and so they were there, or they would stay at Benny  and Berry's 
house. Vic Damone was another Bahá'í. He was out on the strip all 
the time, but briefly. Because you're housekeeping for Benny  and  
Berry so yeah, you meet people running there  through all kinds of 
the day.  
Raiskin:  It's an interesting history that's not been recorded, I think. So you 
got to Oregon. Did you come straight to Eugene?  
Vaden:  I did. I did. Came straight to Eugene. Landed at Eighteenth  and 
City View for a couple of  days because that's where Tim's brother 
lived. But Tim had a girlfriend over on Maple Street off of River 
Road where I've lived since in this area. So I stayed at their house, 
then I ended up at Roosevelt for a year picking up the ways of the 
world about sexism, racism, feminism, any ism, Marxism, 
Leninism. Yeah, I lived in a pretty intense environment there.  
Raiskin:  And who were you living with and how did you find them?  
Vaden:  I found them, again, because Tim's brother, Chris, knew these 
people that lived at the house at Roosevelt. These people were 
interesting to me, so I was staying a mile or so away from the 
Roosevelt house and I could get a ride there, I could walk there, 
and that's where I was attracted to go to every day because there 
was something happening there all the time. Something new, 
something exciting.  
Raiskin:  These are men and women?  
Vaden:  Men and women, yeah, and children. Big political lessons there that 
I knew nothing about, like I say. You could hear about the Vietnam 
War on the  television in Las Vegas. Had I stayed longer with Tim  
and Michelle, I probably would have received more information 
outside of the bubble where I was in initially.  
 So I spent a year with that group. I touched upon another place, 
being in the group— was before the grocery stores were locking 
their garbage bins, we would take the long truck, a big truck, and 
we could go find yogurt that was not outdated and still in the case. 
We could find bread that was— things were not outdated. And 
produce was plentiful. Just because it didn't look good on the shelf, 
it was still good. And so we gathered this food and we had 
numerous households of maybe elders, for example, or persons 
who were shut in that needed help, eat for food and things of that 
nature. So we did a little bit of supply like that for a while and—  
Raiskin:  Did your group have a name or an identity?  
Vaden:  Eugene Coalition. Then we also were able to provide firewood one 
winter to a few houses because we were able to go with trucks and 
cut up slash piles up in the mountains and take it and get it used by 
somebody who was otherwise likely to freeze in the winter, so that 
was good. And then I was no longer interested in staying with this 
group, the Coalition, so I went home for a month, went and visited 
my family. I came back and a friend— it was Dottie Kenyon. Dottie 
Kenyon, she was everyone's advocate. What can I say? Political 
advocate. So she knew the people from the Eugene Coalition. She 
worked with women's groups, upon release halfway housing for 
women from Oregon State.   
Raiskin:  Coffee Creek?  
Vaden:  Huh?  
Raiskin:  Coffee Creek Prison, or the—  
Vaden:  Coffee Creek didn't exist yet. Just right there at— OWCC, I think, is 
what— yeah. So through Dottie, I had met Florence, and then 
bingo, I'm meeting  the lesbians. I'm not sleeping anywhere in 
particular, but, "Oh, well, over here they need a roommate," so 
there I was at Eighth  and Jackson area, just up the street from New 
Frontier. Eighth  and Jackson. I had an interview at Starflower in 
1974 and I was  hired and brought into the collective. Margaret 
Cormier  says, "What sign are you?" I said, "I'm a Taurus." She says, 
“You're in!" I felt good about that. Yeah, that was good.  
Raiskin:  And what was your job there at Starflower?  
Vaden:  Warehousing at first. Warehousing and learning the shop talk, so to 
speak. Loading, unloading, how to tie a palette, how to make it 
safe, how to build an order. So, all of the physical necessities for 
your health and well being. And then I got into trucking and one of 
the first vehicle— If you've talked to Jain Elliott, she may have said 
this, so stop me if you've heard this one. But the first delivery 
vehicle at Starflower was a 1953 roll-top Mercedes Benz. It had a 
moon roof, actually, not a roll top, and it didn't quite work all the 
time, so it was a little wet in there. But it was a Mercedes Benz 
where they could deliver the rennet -less cheese and herbs, spices.   
 And then they grew out of that, which before I was into Starflower, 
I saw a group in the car at the corner had  been stopped by Eugene 
police, so I stopped and I said. "Hey, what's going on over there?" 
And the cop turns around to me and he goes, "So what are you? 
Some kind of curbside lawyer?" I was so embarrassed, but it was 
funny to me. So that was the Mercedes.  And then from the 
Mercedes there was what was called the cattle truck, and that's 
exactly what it was. There was a time when the cattle truck was 
coming— Nina [Robbins] and Rena [Klein] were driving home with 
a load of cheese and they're coming down one of the passes and the 
gearshift come up. So they were able to cram it, jam it back down in 
there, but the cattle truck just kind of got pushed out of the fleet at 
that point.  
 They had Bertha, I think, already, or Pearl. But Bertha and  Pearl 
were the two next honest-to-goodness commercial box trucks with 
refrigeration. Then after Bertha and Pearl, semis came in. They had 
a cab-over, International. We named her Loretta. That was our first 
truck. And then two more semis after that, Belle and Rose. They 
were Kenworths and I loved Kenworths.  
Raiskin:  And you learned to drive them all?  
Vaden:  Yes. Yes. When we first got Loretta, it was a lease truck from up in 
Portland, so I think it was perhaps Christine Frazer and “Jake 
McBlake,” Jean Santos, went to retrieve the truck, and so they had 
to go through a, "Here, this is how you have to drive, this is what 
you have to drive and how to learn it before you go home," kind of  
thing. So they brought the tractor home and on from there. That  
truck had no what is called a Jake brake. It's a compression engine 
brake, so when you're coming down the hill, it gives you a little bit 
of brake without having to use your brakes. So it's that loud noise, 
real rumble. And our first truck didn't have that, so we learned 
how to ride Mt. Ashland very well without a Jake brake.  
Raiskin:  What was it like to be at Starflower?  
Vaden:  For me?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Vaden:  Personally, it was a monastery. For me, it was a place I belonged. 
On a more light level, I would call it my glory days. But there's still 
a great deal to learn from and a place to give from. It gave a whole 
new life and validity to the original path because it was the path 
that apparently when you're on a path, you're creating a path, and I 
was blessed to come into this path. It's huge.  
Raiskin:  So to work with other lesbians who were on their paths was 
powerful for you.  
Vaden:  Yeah. On their path, sharing a united path to get the God-dang 
food out there, to do organic education, to burst the barriers of 
men's work and women's work. Everything just changed how— to 
become less ignorant. The food that we're currently eating since the 
Second World War and white bread and this and that. I don't put 
that down. That's not there. But there were more whole foods that  
are healthier foods. I look at it as, "Well, this was Grandma and 
Grandpa's food, and that's what I'm eating." I had my share of 
Wonder Bread type things, don't get me wrong.  
 But that's what it was out there for, and there were times where it 
was scary because— not that you wanted to, but you weren't a part 
of a union, you weren't a part of longshoremen, this was just where 
your load was and how we— It was scary going across a line like 
that. And then once you got to a dock space, they might bring your 
300 cases of fifty-pound cashews to the tail end of your truck, and 
your truck is empty and you got to walk it another forty  feet can by 
can. It was hard. Or if you had a hand truck, but they wouldn't put 
the palette on the truck so that you could maybe use a palette jack 
to do it with. Got treated pretty harshly, even when there weren't 
such strikes going on, pickets going on.  
Long:  So this is when— for clarification— when there were strikes?  
Vaden:  Yes.  
Long:  At the other—  
Vaden:  Longshoremen docks like in San Francisco.  
Long:  In the docks? Okay.  
Vaden:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], yeah.  
Long:  I see. And they knew that Starflower was not a union place?  
Vaden:  Correct. Correct.   
Long:  But it was a collective.  
Vaden:  Correct. Yeah, a collective  in and of itself, but not a union that was 
driven by this—  
Long:  Like the Teamsters.  
Vaden:  Correct. Correct. Correct. But I had grown up in union stuff. My 
father was not happy when my first job was not a union job. When 
we were kids and there was a strike, we were not allowed to go 
across the picket line to go in a store just as the family members. 
We were not allowed to go in there. So it was really kind of hard to 
go across a picket line, somewhere in me going, "I know I'm not 
supposed to do this, but I'm in another moment in time and I have 
to challenge it." No one was killed. No one was beaten up, and that 
was good. It was just treated poorly.  
Raiskin:  Well, it seems like you knew more about union politics than other 
people at Starflower.  
Vaden:  I was a child of those union politics, but I can't tell you that I knew 
anything more about them. I knew about the Nevada desert, so I 
knew different things about the lore of union activity.  
Raiskin:  And what was the feeling like at Starflower? Did things work 
smoothly? Were there problems?  
Vaden:  Yes. Yes, there were problems. I in fact was my own problem, had 
my own problems, as we were children. We were growing up, and 
I for one had a— I don't know that I am a mean person, but I'm a  
rageous person. If I  didn't like something, I was a rageous person. I 
was very loud or I was bawling my eyes out because I couldn't 
have my way. Whatever it was, I was pecking my way out of a 
shell. I don't know. We worked, all of us, in some point in the day 
and blah, blah, blah, somebody's working out her issue. And just 
learning so much about number one, human behavior, compassion, 
understanding, how to remove yourself from whatever if that's 
what you— 
Raiskin:  How did you all learn that? Was it conscious? Because I know 
consensus was the goal and the process. It's really difficult when 
people don't know how to communicate well. How did you teach 
yourselves and each other?  
Vaden:  Well, I think that to my memory that there was some education 
along the line. There was some reading materials brought in, there 
was— something  active was happening. I couldn't tell you, "Oh, 
specifically so-and-so came and talked to us that night about blah, 
blah, blah, blah, blah." But something of that nature happened 
because we had the— we went down the list. You're going to go 
“crit-self-crit,” that kind of thing.  
Raiskin:  So the criticism-self-criticism model in circle discussions, things like 
that?  
Vaden:  Right, right. So what would it be like at the end of a meeting? I 
don't know if we would criticize the meeting, but, "Here's my  
criticism for blah, blah, blah in the meeting," or however it went. It 
wasn't so cut and dry that there wasn't some flow in it.  
Raiskin:  Did you enjoy it?  
Vaden:  I don't like meetings. That was my main attitude, I don't like 
meetings. And the main reason I didn't is because I always felt that 
there was too much yakking and not enough doing, and maybe 
that's just part of my wild abandon, so I don't see things the way 
maybe others do. But it's sure a lot of time, "Okay, let's just go do 
it." Frustration, yeah, because I know it can be done. "Let's just go 
do it."  
Raiskin:  Did you feel that there was a different class? People who were 
different classes understood class difference in different ways from 
each other?  
Vaden:  Yeah, that was some discussions among going out and having 
dinner and maybe being in a meeting, that it be part of a meeting, 
raising consciousness that way, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel that coming from a working class family that there 
were people who didn't understand things that you understood?  
Vaden:  You know what? I think that Starflower was the first place that I 
ever felt anyone understood me.  
Raiskin:  Wow.    
Vaden:  Because I could say what I had to say and no one was going to hit 
me, so I started learning how to trust in different things, so that 
molded its own perspective. Yeah, so.  
Raiskin:  And what was your social world like? Did you socialize with the 
people from Starflower?  
Vaden:  Yeah. Plus a number of us lived together. I lived in one house with 
Nina and Jain and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and then in another 
house with Breeze  and Jake and blah, blah, blah, blah blah.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what a typical day would be like for you, or a 
weekend day, or a weekday?  
Vaden:  Well, a typical day— and here's the time of year that I love. A 
typical day driving, because that was a great deal of my time, was 
driving. And it would be this time of year, so  you would get to see 
what animals are happening on this farm at this time of year 
because they just had babies that time of year, what do they— Oh, 
the almonds have been done. So you get to see the seasons and the 
animals and the everybody, and so you go driving down the road 
kind of in your silence just going, "Oh, somebody's going to go 
trick-or-treating over at that house tonight. How cool is that?" And 
I'm at Cottage Grove. "Oh, I get to watch fireworks all the way 
home," because it's Fourth  of July.  
 Or driving with people and how wonderful most everyone I ever 
drove with was, just fabulous. Great team partners. I really took 
pride in training a lot of drivers. I learned from other drivers.  
Christine Frazer showed me how to not have to double clutch, just 
pull it right out of there, not have to clutch at all. I said, "Oh, thank 
goodness," because that was really helpful in the city. Where am I 
going from here? I got—  
Raiskin:  What your typical day was like.  
Vaden:  Oh, yes, my typical day. But then if  I was home on the weekends, 
I'm going to be playing softball—  
Raiskin:  What team were you on?  
Vaden:  ... play some music. Huh?  
Raiskin:  What team were you on?  
Vaden:  I was with, I want to say Peralandra  Pearl Divers at one point. I had 
a little ball team one year. It was my initial and my ball team 
partner's initial. Then there was another one after that, one of the 
last ones. Oh, the Color Purple. That was my last ball team, yeah.  
Raiskin:  And you played music during this time also?  
Vaden:  Oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah. Okay, so out of my childhood and into 
relationship-hood, by twenty-nine  I'm with Sandi  [Zimmermann] 
who I'm still with Sandi, and her girls were four and six years old. 
They are now in their forties  and we have our first great-
grandchild. She's six months now. Okay. I'm sorry, your question—  
Raiskin:  You talked about playing ball. I was asking about whether you 
were playing music.   
Vaden:  Playing music. Yes. Yes, I did. I worked full time. Back then when 
Sandi  and I first got together— She also  had worked for Starflower 
and Garbagio’s  and High Street Coffee. So we're both working our 
full-time jobs and having the kids, unless they were with dad 
across the street. I played music. I would come home,  I would go to 
rehearsal right out of the truck and drive the truck to rehearsal. 
Going to rehearsal and go do my job. Sometimes I had a gig at 
Florence, in which case that's where my route was coming down. I 
had a trucking partner and after my twelve-hour  day I would drop 
off in Florence, play my gig, which was another five hours—  
Raiskin:  Did you have a band?  
Vaden:  I had a band called Mesa at the time. I was the lead singer and 
drummer. My friend Gary Battles, that was his band and I was in 
his band. So yeah, I worked full time, played music full time, full 
time meaning three to five nights a week, depending. Three to five 
nights a week. Any more— You can play nine  to twelve  or eight  to 
eleven  or twelve  and it's no longer nine  to two for forty  bucks a 
piece.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet Sandi?  
Vaden:  Shelley Jones introduced me to Sandi. She was on a trucking trip 
with me. I don't know if you've met Shelley Jones. She was a 
financial manager at Starflower. I'm going to say that's what she 
was doing, financial manager. Anyway, Shelly was on a trucking 
run with me and wanted me to meet this person. So at Mapleton  
Produce and Grain right in between Frank's Place and what was 
the Alpha-bit, I walk into this store and here's Sandi  and that was 
it. That was just it.  
Raiskin:  What did she look like to you?  
Vaden:  She looked like the Patty Osuna  I'd been waiting for since first 
grade. That's who she looked like. Absolutely to this day. I'm 
telling you what. Not that she looks like Patty Osuna, but she had 
the right skin tone, she had the right smile, she has the right nose, 
she has the right— anything that just went click. It clicked. It 
clicked.  
Raiskin:  Wow. How old were you then?  
Vaden:  That year I had just turned twenty-nine. She took me to see one of 
the first Tina Turner shows with her back on tour. She was at the 
little Creswell Golf Course or something in Cottage Grove, but it 
was a little stage about eight  inches tall. There was 100 folding 
metal chairs, no fancy lights, no fancy nothing. It's like a me gig. 
You just go set up and do your thing. But that was Tina Turner and 
she made her thing happen, didn't she?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Vaden:  She flipping did. After Ike, yeah, she kicked it good. And so that's 
what happened on my twenty-ninth birthday. I got to see Tina 
Turner with Sandi.  
Raiskin:  And did you ever go to the Riv Room?   
Vaden:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  Tell us about your—  
Vaden:  We had a band called TranSister and that was the first gig 
TranSister ever played. I'll call that 1980, '81. Oh yeah, the Riv 
Room, man. Before they knocked out the candy store wall behind 
the bar— there  was a candy store on the other side behind the bar, 
and when they knocked that wall out, now there was a dance floor. 
There was a place to actually dance, except for this little circle like 
this. It was about no bigger than this in the middle of the floor of 
their redesign. I mean, because it was perfect like it was  when I first 
went in there. It had deep booths and lattice with big rubber grapes 
on it in the Riv Room when I first went there. So much fun. Then 
when they changed it up to little bistro tables and tall chairs, it just 
wasn't fun anymore. "Okay, now they  got a dance floor, we're 
cooking."  
 So yeah. My friend Butch worked there. My youngest brother 
worked there between that and Seymour's, the restaurant next 
door. I bet TranSister played in there at least three times. At least 
three times.  
Raiskin:  What kind of music did you play in TranSister?  
Vaden:  Funk, soul. A little wash of some rock and roll. And— 
Long:  Can you describe the other band members of TranSister?   
Vaden:  Okay. Joan— In TranSister, Joan is her first name and lately I've 
been trying to remember her last name, and it'll put a dent in my 
forehead when I hear it, you know what I'm saying? So we'll just go 
with Joan [Meyer] for now and it might come. She was keyboard. 
There was Dana Vion, drummer, and she could second on bass. 
Because that was the one thing about TranSister that a lot of people 
enjoyed, was that we all exchanged instruments depending on the 
song. And Cheryl Camelio, singer, bass player. And then TranSister 
had a number of guitar players. Sue Miles would sit in and play. 
You ever hear of  Sue Miles?  
Raiskin:  Hm-hmm [negative].  
Vaden:  Guitar player extraordinaire, and sing and play. She has so much 
talent in her little finger, just incredible. So she would play with us. 
We had a guy named Brent Holmquist play with us from— well, 
Heather Perkins. How can I— Heather Perkins was guitar player, 
and that should be  first on the list. Between Heather and Margo 
Girard, those were the two longer-standing guitar players in 
TranSister. And I think TranSister played for— oh, we had Judy 
Vogelsang for a moment as the guitar player as well. Joan's name 
still isn't there.  
 We played until 19— I'll say '87 off the top of my head. And in 
between there as well I would play some pick-up gigs for the Mesa 
that continued after me, because I got into TranSister. So I could do 
some pick-up gigs and drum for Mesa in there.   
Raiskin:  Was TranSister all women?  
Vaden:  Yes. Until Brent was there. But you know what? When you're there 
and it's happening, you're one of the whatevers. Yeah, it was good. 
He was a great guy.  
Long:  The band was called TranSister?  
Vaden:  Sister.  
Long:  Oh.  
Vaden:  Yeah, it was T-R-A-N with a giant S, uppercase S, sister.  
Raiskin:  Cool name.  
Vaden:  Yeah, yeah. Yeah, we had many trips from Ashland to Portland. 
We played at the coast. We were moving. It was a traveling band.  
Raiskin:  And I think you said that you played some benefits against the 
anti-gay measures?  
Vaden:  In the OCA back in— The OCA—  
Raiskin:  Oregon Citizens Alliance.  
Vaden:  Yes. I don't recall any specific gig for that. They're all just so 
jumbled up [laughs].  But being as aware and active as we all were, 
are, I know we did. There was something that we did in Portland, 
as a matter of fact. It was a benefit, so possibly something of that 
nature, but nothing specific do I remember. But yeah, if there was a 
call, it was on.   
Raiskin:  What were some other milestone experiences that you had in the 
lesbian community in Eugene?  
Vaden:  Okay, after Starflower, I went to work for Organically Grown for a 
year or so, maybe two. After that, I went long-haul trucking for a 
group out of Medford for another year. All of my trucking and that 
ended in '91. In 1991, I walked into the Buy & Sell Center and I've 
got to get a little part for some piece of drum that I'm repairing. Jim 
Newell was the man that owned Buy & Sell Center. You never met 
a better human being. He taught me a great deal and I was, what? I 
was thirty-six, thirty-seven, and he's sixty-nine  years old and he's 
like— all of a sudden, the big mohawk with the purple and— it 
was a change. A visual and social change for me, because I'd been 
kind of out and about in the world and not seeing the younger kids 
coming up in the streets, and so they've got new hairdos and new 
jewelry happening and so on, and I wasn't sure who and what it 
was I'm to trust. And, "Okay, I'll just kick back until I know."  
 But I'm sitting there at work one day and I'm hearing Jim go, "Oh 
yeah—," and it was rightly  shown to me that regardless of what I 
saw, I'm now seeing the human.  
Raiskin:  Because he was open.  
Vaden:  Because he was so open. And he loved people.  
Raiskin:  So you were working at Buy & Sell.   
Vaden:  Yeah. Oh yeah, because I walked in one day to get  that little piece 
of something and he goes, "Do you want a job?" Because I had 
bought my first drum set from him when I started playing in— Oh, 
I had to be twenty-three  years old. I walked into his shop and I 
said, "I need a set of drums." I'll turn back a little bit here. I had 
bought a set of drums from him because there was a group, a 
women's band, and they were called Ruth Schwartz. That was 
made up of Debbie Glass from Starflower, Nina Robbins from 
Starflower, “Jake McBlake” from Starflower, and then I never really 
got to meet her, but there was a woman drummer, as well as 
Althea, who played keyboard, who was not from Starflower but 
she was a keyboard player.  
 The drummer left town, and so there was nobody playing music on 
the weekends or having fun or whatever. And all these guys are 
getting together with their piano and guitars and da da da da da. I 
had to have a drum set because there just wasn't any, and so that's 
how I started playing drums.  
Long:  So Buy & Sell was a way to buy and sell your own musical 
instruments.  
Vaden:  Yeah. Jim had new and used music and camera equipment. He 
could purchase. He would purchase new drums, like the congas 
that I have. He gave me a set of congas one Christmas and I've had 
those for over thirty  years now. When I  got those first drums from 
Jim, the first band that came out of that was— I want to say First 
Light. First Light was one of the groups. I don't remember all the  
names that this same core group of people would continue to play. 
And anything about having started drums back then when— again, 
you're truck driving, you're drum playing, you're just not a 
traditional type. But that's good and that's my path.  
 But I think that when I did start playing drums and there weren't 
really girl drummers, I just thought, "What can I do but make more 
girl drummers?" To be open, to actually play out into the open, 
playing a lot of straight bars. Playing a lot of straight bars as a 
woman drummer was really different because there were only two 
other women drummers. They were older than I. They played this 
real different kind of a drumbeat. Even though it was still set in 
time, their attack was completely different. I loved those women. 
They were just really something. They kind of had these kind of 
voice and had been drinking and partying and playing music with 
their husbands for life, and their husbands played the kind of 
music like my Uncle Sonny. It was just Western swing, Western 
jazz, just the heart, just the heart  of it.  
 When I was out there not going  “ta tick ta tick ta tick” [mimics 
drum sound]  and I was going  “da bam! da bam! da bam! da blah! 
de blah!” [mimics drum sound], it was a little bit different. That's 
when the, "Oh, you don't play too bad for a girl," kind of came up. 
I'm so glad that's over. I've so glad that's over. That doesn't happen 
anymore.  
Raiskin:  Did you get to teach younger people?   
Vaden:  I did. I did teach a few younger people. I had the opportunity 
also— I don't know. I'm going to say less than ten years ago, I did a 
one-year stint at the Boys and Girls Club of America and did 
drumming with them. I donated a little drum set to the club, but of 
course, thirty  kids can't play on one drum kit. So what we could do, 
we would play in this room and two thirds of the room was 
mirrors. You've never seen such people looking at themselves and 
just— they  dug playing those sticks. And we played on— 
everybody could have a back of a chair, the seat of a chair, 
whatever you wanted to do, but we went through different 
exercises. One time we had an exercise where we're going to play 
on the floor, so everybody bends over and we're playing on the 
floor and we're stepping back with the right foot and we're 
stepping back with the left foot, but you keep playing. That was 
hard because they came up and said, "I can't breathe."  
 But you could hear, I could observe that their coordination was 
happening. One, two, three, four, and they'd step back. One, two. 
So their hands, they're working, they're working. It was just a gas.  
Long:  And those were elementary school children?  
Vaden:  Well, they were—  
Long:  Or maybe middle school?  
Vaden:  —Boys and Girls Club, so yeah, middle.  
Long:  Middle school.   
Vaden:  Middle down, mm-hmm [affirmative]. Once we started a more 
serious regiment of students— because at the club it's so come and 
go, it's so random— that if you could come to class three times in a 
row, you were awarded your own set of drumsticks with your 
name on it. That was fun, and there were some very, very talented 
kids in there that would bring their flute, that would bring their 
recorder, or whatever it was. Violin, had one kid was starting violin 
and just saw how we could mesh what you know with what we 
would like to do drum wise here. Let's see if we can make it 
harmonic. It was good.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever do anything with Jill Sager?   
Vaden:  I know Jill Sager, but I've never took a lesson from her, but I love 
her dearly. I played at her wedding. Soulicious played at her 
wedding.  
Raiskin:  Cool.  
Vaden:  Yeah. She's a wonderful being.  
Raiskin:  And what about Soulicious? Tell us about Soulicious.  
Vaden:  Soulicious is ten years old. In 2006, actually, there was the first Girls 
Rock. Cindy at the time's name— Cindy. I'll just use Cindy's name 
for right now.   
Raiskin:  Irma?   
Vaden:  She had been married to Steve Ariola, guitar 
player/musician/singer extraordinaire. But that's not the last name. 
Ingram. Cindy Ingram. She started the first Girls Rock series and I 
was not established as Soulicious as of yet. I was Paula Vaden and 
Friends. But that's where Soulicious grew out from. Then I had 
asked Cheryl to come to the recording studio to do some backup 
work and to listen, because she had a fabulous ear. She said, 
"Okay," and that night during the recording, she said, "Why don't 
you call this band Soulicious?" I'm like, "Okay, let's just do that," 
and so there it is, it's that simple and wonderful.  
 Then a few weeks later, Cheryl's like, "I want to be in Soulicious." I 
went, "Okay, let's be in Soulicious. Let's do this." And what 
wonderful work partner. Singer, entertainer, mom. She's just an 
incredible, incredible person.  
Raiskin:  What kind of music do you play? Soul?  
Vaden:  In Soulicious? Yep. Soul. And whatever it is we play, whether it be 
a rock tune or blues, I'm telling you what. If Soulicious is doing it, 
that's how it gets twisted. We twist it up in Soulicious style.  
Raiskin:  How many people are in Soulicious?  
Vaden:  Seven. When we are Soulicious Light, it's because we can do a gig 
maybe— If Gus, the  keyboard player, is the only one that can't 
make the gig, we don't want to but if the rest of us want to do the 
gig, we can, so we'll call us Soulicious Light, just so you know.   
Long:  And you're still playing in that band now?  
Vaden:  Yes. Yes. Yes. My friend Sharon Greve has been the drummer— 
Well, she and I have played music for the last twenty-four  years 
together, and so she was the drummer in Soulicious until she found 
love across the ocean. So for right now, that's what she's doing, but 
we have— Claudia Paige is drumming with Soulicious and she's 
extraordinary. Extraordinary drummer. Heart drummer, 
completely soul drummer in terms of— yeah, she hears it, she 
knows it, she gets it instantly because she is a drummer. It's pretty 
awesome.  
Raiskin:  And the way TranSister was a lesbian band, Soulicious is not.  
Vaden:  No. It's almost half and half, if you can get half and half out of 
seven, you know what I mean? Yeah, there's Gerry  [Rempel], Gus  
[Russell], and Michael  as keyboard, guitar, and base. Then there's 
me and Joanne  [Broh], our singers, Linda Kanter, she's saxophone. 
Let's see, Gus Russell on on guitar, Mike [Hatgis] on bass, Claudia 
on drums, Linda on sax, and me and Joanne on vocals and 
percussion.  
Raiskin:  And what's your experience in the lesbian community now? Or 
how have things changed?  
Vaden:  Well, in the community as I live in it, I have lived in what I call my 
family, which has been a large extended family of friends and 
people who have been friends and known each other for— I can 
say twenty-five years, but some of these people have known each  
other for far more than twenty-five years. These are the friends that 
I— none  of them are musicians. I don't play music with them, but 
they come to the gigs. They come to the gigs. And that's my pod, 
that's my lesbian community. It's good there. I have friends there. 
It's a resourceful extended family, a resourceful group of talented 
people of different skills and abilities. “Far above those beyond 
mortal men.”  
Raiskin:  What do you do with each other? What kind of social things are 
happening?  
Vaden:  We party. Birthdays, Duck football, Thanksgiving. Pending— 
Christmas kind of gets chopped up between here and there and 
everybody's families, so it's not the same necessarily. We get 
together. But summer barbecues. Lots of summer barbecues and 
there's always umpteen birthdays within those summer barbecues, 
so it works out a lot.  
Raiskin:  Some people have talked about the fact that the gay and lesbian 
rights people have gotten married, have families, children, and 
some people find that lesbians have assimilated to an extent, that 
they don't find each other so much anymore in the community in 
Eugene, but you don't find that to be true.  
Vaden:  Say it again?  
Raiskin:  That the assimilation of lesbians has made it more difficult to be in 
community together or they don't feel the need for it, become more 
mainstream.   
Long:  Yeah, mainstream.  
Raiskin:  There's some feeling of loss around the political gains, with also 
some loss. Do you experience that at all?  
Vaden:  Here's what I experience where that gain/loss may play, and that is 
being in my own little hub for so long, it's like a warehouse. It 
breaths. It comes and it goes and it changes. Some changes you're 
not down with and some changes you don't even know happened. 
In my hub of people, there's the age differences. Where Sandi  and I 
are— let's say we're in our sixties, and a lot of our friends are in 
their forties  and they're brand new families. So the change happens, 
the distance happens, the whatever  happens because that priority 
over there changed and they needed that to happen. We'll still see 
the kids at the this and the that, but they have a life. You can see 
people go off onto their lives and what a blessing.  
Raiskin:  How did you make connections with women in their forties?  
Vaden:  Because they came with the other people. Because of parties that 
happened in the summertime. Sandi  and I had separated for a brief 
moment, so I was living at a place one summer when I turned forty  
over on Morningside out in the Cal Young district, and there was a 
church on this side and a field. It was just a big place, so we had big 
barbecues in the front yard and we'd get out there and play music 
and the police would show up and we'd invite them to barbecue. It 
wasn't happening, but you know, "Quiet down."   
 I met a lot of these people back then. And little did I know— 
because I don't see age, apparently, because little did I know, that 
person wasn't even twenty-one when I met them. And so when  I 
hear about it, I'm like, "Really? You're only forty-eight?" I'm like, 
"You were illegal at that party," or whatever. But yeah, we're all 
there. There's some of them recently that have gotten into 
motorcycles, and so that's part of what everyone— The group that 
wants to go motorcycle go motorcycle, so it keeps the conversation 
interesting at dinner, at coffee.  
Raiskin:  Are you still meeting people in their twenties and thirties?  
Vaden:  As long as I have my grandkids around, I certainly am, yeah. I am 
not so on the street as I used to be, because there's been a change up 
for me, too. Unless it's gigging, I'm not meeting a whole lot of 
people, but I like to meet the people at my gigs. And yeah, there are 
some that are younger or same age, whatever. There's  never not a 
younger age around, that's for sure.  
Raiskin:  And do you have any thoughts or feelings about the way the 
younger people understand sexuality or gender in a different way 
than you did?  
Vaden:  This is what Sandi  and I say in our family, and that is our children 
didn't grow up with color issues. Our grandchildren have grown 
up without gender issues. It's a good thing.  
Raiskin:  Do you mean by that that they have more opportunity to express 
their felt gender than, say, you did?   
Vaden:  Oh, them  themselves. Them themselves, no. What I thought you 
meant is how do they feel about it.  
Raiskin:  Oh, I see.  
Vaden:  Yeah, my kids, grandkids, they're not seeking anything in 
particular. They're maybe not so great in a little toxic relationship 
going on here or there, but they're taking care of it, as we all have to 
learn, as I once was a toxic person myself. But yeah, there's not any 
question— 
Raiskin:  I think when you came out from your bathroom and you combed 
your hair back like your brothers, that was not allowed and you see 
kids now who are transitioning or understand themselves as non-
binary. Do you think you would have been like that if that 
language or understanding had been available to you?  
Vaden:  Yeah. Because I wanted to be, obviously, in the first place. So yeah, 
had it  been a little bit more breathe-easy kind of time, I could have 
handled something. It wouldn't have been too bad. But it wouldn't 
have give them a reason to keep me in a dress, okay? I just wasn't 
going to go there.  
Raiskin:  Do you have thoughts about aging in Eugene, what it might be like 
for you, things that you're concerned about or excited about in 
aging?  
Vaden:  My idea the other day about aging was I'm done adulting. I've been 
an adult, I'm a practiced adult, I'm a well-versed adult, it's second  
nature. I can let go of that, and now I am an elder in toddlers'— I 
don't know anything about being this age, because things at this 
age— not that I'm old, but the age thing is different in terms of my 
body is doing different things kind of constantly, and so I'm like, 
"Okay." I'm just tuning up here, so that's why I feel like a toddler, 
because I'm tuning up something I— It's like starting over, and 
that's not a bad thing, it's just a new set of skills I'm building. 
Nothing to be afraid of.  
Raiskin:  It's interesting to hear it less as a focus on loss of what your body 
can do and more as something you're learning.  
Vaden:  Right. Well, I have been a practitioner of body ergonomics forever, 
and so for whatever I'm dealing with, I'm not broken. I was just 
talking to Sandi  this morning. I said, "I'm so glad I got here," 
because when I had my first knee replacement at fifty-five, I swore 
that I was not going to allow myself to be so broken that I look like 
some of these war vets who can't stand up straight and they're not 
walking and they're not present with their partner, wife, whomever 
at the dinner table. They're just sitting there doing their thing. 
They're not communicating. And I said, "I don't want that." I don't 
want that. I don't want to be so broken that I can't function with my 
grandchildren, and I want to be able to function.  
 So when I got my knee replacement, I could go free rock climbing 
with the grandkids.  This is good, this is good. I'm going along, 
going along, and sixty-three hit and things started changing up for 
me physically. And it's like, "Okay, just remember that path. Just  
remember that path. You've been on it. You've been on it 
diligently," which can make you brittle, but I've been on it 
diligently and I am not broken, I'm changing. What changed was 
polymyositis. The doctor told me it was polymyositis. I had always 
been very strong and in control of that strong and I felt that I did 
great feats with my strength, but not to be stupid to hurt myself in 
the process because there's more to it than just— “arrgh!” There's 
just everything is involved, and so I didn't do that to myself. But 
now that I lost this muscle mass where I couldn't pick up seven 
pounds and put it in my truck, it was like, "Oh, this isn't good. But 
it's not bad either."  
 I'm working on the healing of that myositis, because it's myositis 
Western wise, but it's a whole ‘nother issue from the spirit wise, 
from the spiritual side of things, how I see things.  
Raiskin:  Are you in a particular spiritual  practice?  
Vaden:  My path. That's always been my practice. As hopeless as I ever 
got— I don't know if you ever saw this movie, NeverEnding Story, 
and there was this kid, his name was Atreyu, and he and his horse 
were going through this Swamp of Sadness. And when you're in 
the Swamp of Sadness, you cannot give up. He lost his horse in the 
Swamp of Sadness, but you know what? You have to stay on that 
path because that path is hope, and you have got to have some 
hope.  
Raiskin:  Do you always know where the path is?   
Vaden:  Yes. Sometimes I don't know why I'm there. It's not like, "How did I 
get here?" because I'm not looking at how I got here, because I do 
enough of that memory-wise. I live by memory a lot. My path is 
just that until you're dead, you're on your path and this is just a 
way to get there, it's a blessing because it gives me some focus. I'm 
not wild abandon and so crazy I can't relate.  
Raiskin:  Can you feel when you're off the path?   
Vaden:  Sometimes I can feel when there's things that's been put in my path, 
and it's like, "Well, that's your rock. I have to go around it. I don't 
have time for your rock in my path." No. I have just practiced. The 
word “path” obviously has been in my life all my life, so even 
though I can get sad and even though I can go— “Yeah, but” 
because I've been doing this for life, and I'm just going to keep 
going until I can't and that'll be the path. Whatever it was will be 
the path that I had, but I went there  knowingly. So I made a lot of 
choices.  
Raiskin:  What are your and Sandi's future look like? Did you get married?  
Vaden:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?  
Vaden:  Well, we had a ceremony in our backyard and it was a beautiful 
day, and I'll tell you part of it why, a piece of it. When Sandi  and I 
had our first commitment ceremony umpteen years ago out in this 
beautiful country setting, our friend Junior married us. That was  
just a commitment ceremony. It didn't have anything to do with 
whether it was legal or not legal. It was just ours. Well, our 
daughters didn't want to come. We had had a pretty hard time. 
Once the children got to teenage age, our relationships and stuff fell 
apart. There was difficulty in the “mom” and the “not-mom” 
issues. We did  not discuss Paula and Mom. We chose to go through 
some hard time with the kids. At first, the kids were just absolutely 
lovely. Amy and I had a beautiful bond. She was my, "We're going 
to go have breakfast after the gig," kind of kid and it was 
wonderful. But the teenage times came and they became very 
angry with us. We weren't allowed to talk about us. The kids' 
friends knew about us, but they didn't want to relate. So up until 
this— what was it?  
Raiskin:  Twenty-fifteen?  
Vaden:  Sandi  and I actually got married-married  with a certificate— one 
time we did, but they sent our money back. We have the certificate. 
The difference with this wedding was both of the girls came. Heidi, 
the oldest, she said, "Mom, we can't not come to this wedding." 
And so Amy supposedly wasn't going to be able to make it, but 
Heidi set it up and Amy surprised us and Amy came. So, this is 
perfect.  
Raiskin:  How did they change their mind or how did they grow between 
the last wedding and this one?   
Vaden:  Personally, I go consistency. We're all still here, we're all doing the 
same thing, your mother is okay. They can see that their mom is 
okay. Mom's still coming and doing this, so everything's okay. But 
several years ago— five years ago— two of our oldest grandsons 
came to visit for six or seven weeks. Both Sandi  and I, being from 
the era that— we never listened to Beatles and Jimi Hendrix so 
much in seven weeks that we did with them boys, and we had a 
blast. We had a ball. They come to understand and know who 
Sandi  and I are. Because they said, "Paula, who are you? You have 
been with us our entire lives," because I was there when they were 
born and so on and so. Okay. Me and Mom spilled the beans, so to 
speak. We just went ahead and did what we didn't think we should 
and we did it anyway, so the boys went home and told all their 
cousins and all the cousins and the boys are going, "What the hell is 
wrong with you people?"  
Raiskin:  You mean the daughters?  
Vaden:  Yeah, their parents.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, the daughters.  
Vaden:  "We have no problem with it." Sandi  went to visit shortly thereafter 
and the kids bring out that Macklemore tune.  
Long: Same Love?   
Vaden:  Same Love. And, "Grandma, this is what we're listening—" So the 
parents have mellowed out. Yeah. The grandkids are great. Yeah, 
it's good.  
Raiskin:  That's great. Well, if you were to imagine a young person watching 
this video and hearing about your life, is there any particular 
advice you would give or some wisdom that you would pass on to 
younger people?  
Vaden:  Believe your gut. Believe your gut. If what your gut is telling you at 
the moment says red, but you recognize that lesson and it comes in 
blue and you recognize that, it's what the lesson is. You don't pick 
the blue. That blue has nothing to do with it. Go for it. You know it. 
Trust your gut. Stay on that path. You don't have to pick one. You 
can come to know one. It's what you choose to pin on you as your 
character. "This is what I want in my character. Yeah, I didn't like 
that so much, so—" But you'll experience things. I also knew at a 
very young age, whenever I spoke something that was somewhat 
negative about another being, another group, another this or that, I 
ended up experiencing that which I was just bitching about. And so 
I learned right then and there that that was consistent, so I went, 
"Oh okay, well, don't be yakking about other people's plight and 
thinking you're all cool and shit." Just do your thing. Stay on your 
path.   
Raiskin:  Is there anything that we haven't asked you about that you would 
really like to be recorded about your history?   
Vaden:  Probably not, because I could probably sit and talk about myself all 
day long. I'm just kind of like— no. I don't think so. I  think this has 
been real thorough and for me, it's been really important and it's 
most healing because it comes at a really intense time of so  many 
new beginnings for me. I appreciate the time. Yeah. It's given a lot, 
and I appreciate it.  
Raiskin:  Well thank you, you've given a lot in this as well.  
Vaden:  Thank you.  
Raiskin:  Enjoy your path.  
Long:  Thank you so much.  
Vaden:  Indeed. Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  