 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries' Special Collections & University Archives. This is 
an oral history interview with Roberta Pupilli on August 24, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries' Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Roberta, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project, and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Pupilli:  Yes, I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much. Let's just begin with a simple question. Can 
you please tell us when and where you were born, where you grew 
up, and something about your early background?  
Pupilli:  Yes. I was born in a little town called Ostia just outside of Rome in 
Italy in 1957. My family immigrated to Australia when I was five. 
We were two families of four with two single men. The ten of us 
got together and got on a ship just outside of Naples. It took, at that 
point in time, about three or four weeks to get to  Australia when 
we had to go around Africa because the Suez Canal was closed at 
that point. So it was a long trek. On the ship, the men and the boys 
learned English and the women and the girls didn't. They were 
setting up the men to start working and so  on and the women, 
they'll make due.  
 Anyway, got to Sydney, Australia and we all lived together in a 
two-bedroom house very much like the immigration story now 
until both of the fathers could find work. Then we separated and 
lived in different houses and  started our  life. We were the first 
Italians in the neighborhood.  
Raiskin:  Why did you immigrate your family?  
Pupilli:  Well, the political situation was so unsteady in Italy at that time. 
My father started thinking that maybe that's not the best time to  
raise children there. Every six months, there was a different 
government and very extreme. It had the fascists and it had the 
democrats and it had the socialists. So, he decided that it was time  
to move. Just our immediate family moved. The rest of my family is 
still in Italy.  
Long:  What kind of work did your father do?  
Pupilli:  He was a fitter and turner which I think in America is called a 
machinist. My mother was a seamstress. Definitely, working class 
roots. Australia at that time was asking for immigrants from Italy 
and from Greece to come in and do the work that people didn't 
want to do there. It worked out. He applied a few times and then 
eventually was accepted. Then we moved. So for me being five 
years of age, I started school at that point in time. We spoke Italian 
at home, so no one had any English except for the little bit that my 
father and my brother learned. My brother was twelve  so he had a 
much harder time trying to integrate.  
 It was interesting because there was a lot of prejudice against 
Italians and Greeks at that point in time because we were coming in 
to take the jobs of the local people. A lot of my bullying actually 
happened around me being an immigrant as opposed to me being a 
lesbian. I came out when I was thirteen  to myself. I had a very good 
friend that I grew up with who was Greek Australian. The first day 
of high school, I sat in an all-girls school and I didn't know anyone. 
She walked in the door and I said, "Quick, quick, come over here. 
Sit next to me." She sat next to me. And, I don't know. I don't know 
what it was, how we actually who came to start talking about 
sexuality. But we did and we were both lesbians. So, we both grew 
up together being lesbian not in relationship but as good friends.   
Raiskin:  What did you  know about lesbian at thirteen? How did you know 
it? 
Pupilli:  I mean, I had a really strong feeling. I had really strong urges. I 
couldn't quite make sense of it. But I was drawn to things like 
books on deviant behavior because it was deviant behavior back 
then. So, psychology books and I'd read and I'd go, "Yes, this is 
me." I wouldn't think of it as deviant behavior. It was just a way for 
me to actually say, "Okay, this is where I belong." I know I don't 
belong here. But I didn't know where until I started looking at this. 
Then I thought, "Oh, okay." I think homosexual is the word that I 
used at that point in time because I didn't know the word lesbian 
till a couple of years later.  We were lucky. We were very lucky 
because we were an all-girls  school. We had some teachers that 
were also lesbian.  
Long:  How did you know?  
Pupilli:  Well, they looked after us. They sort of just kept an eye on us and 
made sure that things were okay for us. They would sort of joke, 
not really say explicitly, but they would  joke about themselves. Oh, 
we understand what's happening here. That was great. We actually 
had quite a lot of friends in high school that was— it was a really 
supportive environment to sort of come out and explore. I'd have 
puppy love. I'd walk my girlfriend home at thirteen  and carry her 
books. It was just silly.   
Long:  What did your fellow students think about that? Did you get any 
negative reactions?  
Pupilli:  No. I mean, it was really interesting. We would send love notes to 
other girls in the class  who were obviously heterosexual, they were 
not lesbian. They would respond back to us telling us they loved 
us. It was unbelievable. It was a family unit. Things at  home for me 
were not good. At school was where I actually got to feel safe and 
comfortable and myself, which was— 
Long:  Can I ask? In Australia, did they always separate girls from boys 
in— Was it a public school you went to?  
Pupilli:  Yes, public school. Yes. Actually, in private schools as well. There 
were boys schools and girls schools at that time. I think it's still the 
same now but I'm not quite sure.  
Raiskin:  Was the curriculum different, for boys school and girls schools?  
Pupilli:  I don't really know. I don't really know.  
Raiskin:  Interesting. Did you come out to your family at that point or—? 
Pupilli:  Well, my brother knew just because I'll be going every afternoon 
walking my girlfriend home. When he wanted me to do something 
for him, I'd say, "Oh, no. I don't have time." He'd say, "Oh, yeah. 
You have to walk your girlfriend home. Right?" It was kind of our 
way of acknowledging, yes, this was what was happening. My 
mother died when I was sixteen. I didn't ever come out to her. My 
father, really, I didn't come out to him until I was probably about  
thirty-five. That being said, I brought him to my house when I lived 
with friends and lovers. I would say, "This is where we sleep. This 
is my house." They would come over and meet my Dad.  
 It was obvious to me, but the “L word” was never spoken until I 
was thirty-five. By that time, I was living here in Eugene. I sent him 
a letter. I waited ten days because the snail mail used to take ten 
days to get to Australia. I called him on the eleventh  day, I think, 
and I said, "Did you get my mail? Did you get my letter?" He said, 
"Yeah." I said, "What do you think?" He said, "I read it. I tore it up. I 
never want to talk about it." It was very hard to hear, but my father 
loved me unconditionally. I mean, it didn't change our relationship. 
It didn't deepen our relationship as far as that piece of my life, but I 
felt completely loved and supported by him, and vice versa.  
Raiskin:  So, you're back in high school.  
Pupilli:  Yes, back in high school, then we have at fourth year, you can leave 
and get a Leaving Certificate or you can go on for another two 
years and get a Higher School Certificate, which will then allow 
you to go to a college or university. My good friend left at fourth 
form.  
Raiskin:  What age is that?  
Pupilli:  That is sixteen. Then you would go into a trade school if you 
wanted or just start working. I went on for another couple of years. 
Then when I was eighteen, I thought, Okay, I really need to find 
out if I am actually lesbian because even though I had all these  
strong emotions and love-ships and so on, I hadn't really been in a 
relationship, and certainly hadn't been sexual.  My friend was 
already out in the world. I called her up and I said, "Okay, you 
need to take me to a lesbian bar so we can actually see if this is 
really true." Of course, as they say, the rest is history. Right? Never 
looked back.  
Long:  What city was that?  
Pupilli:  That was in Sydney.  
Long:  Sydney.  
Pupilli:  Yeah. Red Ruby’s was one of the— at that point in time,  of course, 
gay rights. I mean, there were lots of bars and lots of opportunities 
to come together  and meet.  
Raiskin:  Was it a lesbian bar or a gays bar?  
Pupilli:  No. It was a lesbian bar.  
Raiskin: What did it look like?  
Pupilli:  You just had a door in the wall kind of thing with steep stairs going 
up. There was a dance floor in the middle. There was one bar up 
this end, and then tables and chairs, and then another bar down the 
other end. It was really funny because in those days, people really 
divided themselves into different factions. You had the lipstick 
lesbians. You had the diesel dykes. You had the soft dykes. You 
had the gold-star dykes who had never slept with men before. Then  
you had the bar dykes and the political dykes. You had to choose. It 
was really very restricting, but that's how it was in the ‘70s. 
Everybody, depending on where you were, Ruby's, that's where 
you sort of situated yourself.  
Raiskin:  Where were you?  
Pupilli:  I was in soft dyke, political dykes. That's where I sort of fell into. 
That seemed to be more comfortable, but there was a lot of pressure 
to be more one or the other.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Pupilli:  That was in 1976.  
Raiskin:  So did you find a girlfriend there?  
Pupilli:  Yes, I did. I did. I found a girlfriend there and we lived together— 
Actually, I was still living at home because being a good Italian, 
family, girls don't leave home unless they get married. That was 
quite a traumatic event when I left home. My Dad  was in tears. I 
was in tears. That was really hard. But yes, I met my first live-in 
girlfriend and moved in with her into a cooperative household. 
That's how mostly I lived with people, were in a cooperative 
household. Some mixed, and  some later on more separatists, 
women only. Then I started working. I had graduated from college 
and I started working at a halfway house.  
Long:  What did you study in college?   
Pupilli:  Social Work. Yes, a halfway house for women and young girls who 
came  out of correctional institutions. I was the social worker there. 
It had just opened up. The woman who was the director was at that 
point in time the longest serving female prisoner in Australian 
history. I was working for her, which was quite interesting. I was 
there and then I started working and obviously became very 
political as well as lesbian rights and women's rights.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember the name of the place you worked?  
Pupilli:  Guthrie House.  
Raiskin:  Guthrie House. Okay.  
Pupilli: Yeah. Guthrie House. Then, of course, just becoming more 
politically aware about women who come out and institutions and 
the services and the resources that they need to be able  to transition 
their life.  All of the age of twenty-two, I woke up. I hit the ground. 
They taught me a lot, which was great. Then afterwards, I studied 
some Swedish massage because I thought it's a good skill to have to 
mixing with social work. I thought those two things could really 
blend nicely together. Then I started working at Every Woman's 
Health Center, which is the oldest women's health center in 
Australia, Sydney, Australia. It opened up in the ‘70s. That point in 
time, it was providing abortions. We would go to the airport and 
get women from New Zealand or other states where they didn't 
have legal abortion and bring them to our clinic and assist  them 
with their needs.  
Raiskin:  Was it political pushback about that in Australia at your clinic?  
Pupilli:  Yes. We definitely had an equivalent right to life group in 
Australia. It was not as vicious or as extreme as it is here. But many 
times, they would be at the front of the building and they would be 
protesting and screaming. We would have to  accompany women 
through. Politically, Australia was  socialist. So it was in line with 
providing services for people that needed them. So that was not an 
issue but the religious right was definitely very difficult. It was 
interesting because when we moved, we moved into an Italian 
neighborhood. We thought, Oh, I'm sure we're going to get a lot of 
pushback from the Italians being Catholic . 
 Actually, the women were really supportive. Every time the right 
to lifers were out the front protesting, they would come out and 
they would get the hoses and they'd hose down their front yard. 
Accidentally hose them. It was great. It was so unexpected. But 
anyway, that was an incredible time to sort of be in my early 
twenties and experiencing— it was a collective.  We did everything 
from receiving women intake to accompanying them for the 
conversation with the doctor through surgery and then recovery. 
Also doing books and finances and all that sort of thing. So every 
one of us actually got to do the whole piece, except, of course, the 
medical procedures. We weren't skillful, but we had nurses. We did 
have a male doctor as well as a female doctor. So it wasn't 
exclusively women, but the collective was all women.   
 From then, with my massage license, I went to work at a women's 
healing center where we provided alternate  therapies. I started to 
go back to Every Woman's Health Center to do some massage for 
women there. That's basically a lot of what I did before I got to 
Eugene.  
Raiskin:  What brought you to Eugene? What did you know of Eugene 
before you came here?  
Pupilli: Well, funny, I never really wanted to come to the U.S. It always 
seemed like a country that politically, it was just not in step with 
who I was or where I wanted to be. I was at a women's healing 
magical weekend. There was a woman there from Eugene, Oregon. 
She had been living in Sydney for the last four years and was 
moving back to Oregon. I had met her like three or four months 
before she was moving back here.  
Raiskin:  Who was that?  
Pupilli:  Lynn Marx. We kind of got together, had this mad, we thought, 
affair at that point in time. Just like, "You're going back. Oh, sure. 
This is good." We'll just have a short thing which women seem to 
not be able to do anyway in those days. So she came back and I 
thought, Well, I'll come and visit and just sort of see.  Funnily 
enough, at that point in time, I had mentioned it to a couple of 
people, friends and they’d heard of Eugene. They said, "Oh, yeah, 
Eugene. Lesbian Mecca. You go. It's a great place. Lesbians 
everywhere. It will be fun." I thought, Oh, okay.    
 I followed probably about three months later and really liked it. I 
was sick of living in the big city. Things had gotten to a point where 
I was open to some change, and this just sort of fell into my lap. I 
came over three months later. We started sort of setting up house.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Pupilli:  That was in 1989. I was quite surprised when I got here that 
because I was so involved in International Women's  Day in Sydney, 
I'd always participate for many, many years, there wasn't any 
celebration here. Well, not in the community itself. There may have 
been at the university. I wasn't connected to the university, but it 
was like. “It's International Women's Day. Why isn't anything 
happening?” So I then just got a bee in my brain and I thought, 
"Okay, I  have to do something here." I joined NOW  the National 
Organization of Women, of which at the time I think there was just 
me and one other person. It was pretty  small, limping along.  
Long:  That was the Eugene chapter?  
Pupilli:  Eugene chapter. Yes. I'd also at that same point in time joined 
Soromundi Lesbian Chorus of Eugene at its inception. We were 
meeting in people's backyards and living rooms and things like 
that at that point. I wanted to ground myself in Eugene and I 
thought I need to create a community for myself.  
Raiskin:  What was your first impression of the lesbian community in 
Eugene?   
Pupilli:  I thought we were everywhere. It was just like everywhere I 
looked, it looked like, "She's a lesbian. She's a lesbian. This and 
that." Then I realized that part of that is the outdoorsy feel of 
Eugene, and not really every woman I came across was a lesbian. I 
was like, "Oh, okay." There were things happening, moving as far 
as the choir. That really sort of hooked me into a lot of different 
networks. I felt like it was— 
Long:  If we could just backtrack for a second, what did you think of the 
City of Eugene itself? What were your impressions of the  lay of the 
city, the infrastructure of the city, that kind of thing?  
Pupilli:  Well, I was happy to be in a smaller town. I mean, I was ready to 
move out of big city and move where it was a little bit slow or 
much slower than Sydney. Much more open space. I really enjoyed 
that. As I said, people seem to be very friendly, very welcoming. I 
felt pretty much at home quickly. There didn't seem to be— well, 
there was a bar, I think, at that point in time, but I was done with 
doing  bars by the time I got here.  I went a couple of times and it 
was just more of the same of my early twenties. I was not really 
interested.  
Raiskin:  How old were you when you came to Eugene?  
Pupilli:  Thirty-two. Early thirties. I noticed the lack of color. I really missed 
the racial void here and all the different languages. I mean, it 
seemed like no one was speaking Italian, of course. No one was 
speaking Chinese or Spanish or— it was very white and kind of  
bland. But again, at that point in time, I was really involved just 
finding my footing here with the lesbian community. That sort of 
kept me  quite busy and exploring.  But I was happy to be here, 
happy that I could walk wherever I wanted to.  
Raiskin:  Where were you living?  
Pupilli:  Actually, pretty close to where I'm living now. Hayes and 
Nineteenth. Just a little west of town.  
Raiskin:  Were there other lesbians in your neighborhood or how did you 
find yourself there?  
Pupilli:  I think there was one other lesbian in the actual same street. No one 
else really close by. Everybody— it felt accepting. The neighbors 
were fine. I didn't really seem to have any issues at all at that point.  
Raiskin:  What did you do for work when you got here?  
Pupilli:  Well, what we did was we set up a business called Embrace 
Conflict. In Australia at that point in time, there was a whole 
movement about non-confrontational communication. There was a 
whole curriculum for it, which my ex-partner then had studied and 
wanted to bring back to Eugene. What we did was we set up kind 
of like a little nonprofit where we will do seminars for different 
groups. Under that sort of umbrella, we also, because she was such 
an outdoor person, we did hiking trips and skiing trips for women. 
Women-only hiking and skiing trips where we would teach women 
how to survive in the back country and map and compass skills  
and that type of thing. That was very fun. Once we kind of 
piecemealed it together basically, and then we got involved with 
the National Coalition Building Institute, which is headed in D.C. 
But it has many chapters throughout the country, and it focuses 
mainly on diversity, conflict.  
 So it was just sort of a natural progression that we would move into 
that area because of interest as well. Then we did a lot of diversity 
trainings and train-the-trainer-trainings throughout the state. We’d 
go back to D.C. every year or so and get another shot and come 
back and try and do some  more work here in Eugene.  I really 
enjoyed doing that. It prospered for a number of years, actually. 
Even after we separated, I continued to working with this fellow 
that I had met who was from Eugene but met him in Seattle, 
actually. We continued the work. Telling his story from a white 
male perspective and me  from a lesbian immigrant.  It was very 
cool.  
Long:  Did you seek out any other people from Australia or Italy when 
you were in Eugene?  
Pupilli:  Yes, I did. But I couldn't find anyone. Not to more recently, and this 
is where I get my Italian is I go to Beppe & Gianni and I talk with 
him in Italian every time I go. That's about it. There's no one else.  
Long:  And that's a restaurant in Eugene.  
Pupilli:  Yes, it's a  restaurant in Eugene. Yes. We get to speak five minutes at 
a time when I get there and that's it. But I was still talking to my  
family, calling them. I still do that now, call my family in Italy and I 
go and visit them when I can every  two or three years. So I'm still 
able to get that Italian, but no, in Eugene, nothing. I know there are 
Australian folks here but I haven't connected with them.  
Raiskin: What was your experience at Soromundi like?  
Pupilli:  Wow. I loved it. At first, it was “We're all so happy to be together 
and singing and learning.” At that point, we were all just pulling it 
together because no one really knew how to bring it together. I 
mean, obviously Karm  had some sense and had musical 
background. But it was a lot of fun. A lot of fun. It felt like creating 
my own family. I loved singing. We would have potlucks, of 
course. We would go away for weekends to select music and things 
like that. That was always a lot of fun. It was consensus decisions 
which, after a while, it’s like, "I've had enough." After so many 
years of being politically active and then again, continuing to be, it 
just wore me down.  
 I mean, it was all good. I really appreciate being able to hear 
everybody's opinion and how they feel or think about a certain 
thing. But I think, to make decisions, it needs to come down to just 
a couple of people after everyone's been heard. It  got a little  bit 
laborious. I stopped going to some of the meetings that we would 
have, but still, I still have very close friends from that time. Then 
that was, well,  twenty-five years ago.   
Long:  What were the audiences like? First, if you could explain where 
you performed.  
Pupilli:  Oh my. We performed in many different places. In churches, for 
people's weddings, women's— at that point in time, obviously, it 
wasn't legal. So, their own domestic partnerships. We performed at 
rallies, International Women's Day. When I created International 
Women's Day, Soromundi would perform. Then I did three or four 
years in a row. We would always have Soromundi sing either on 
the mall or at Wheele r Pavilion. Wow. Willamette  AIDS Council 
fundraisers and Harvey Milk fundraisers, NARAL. I mean, really, 
whoever wanted  us, we would perform for.  It was great. We were 
always so well accepted. It was always pretty much a wonderful 
experience for, I think, both audience and us. At that point in time, 
there was only maybe twenty-five, thirty  of us. It's not as big as  it is 
now. It was a lot more intimate.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. How many members are there now?  
Pupilli:  I think there's sixty or seventy  or so. I don't know if they all 
perform, but I think it's quite large.  
Raiskin:  So you were here for Measure 9.  
Pupilli:  Yes. And Measure 13.  
Raiskin:  And Measure 13. Can you tell us something about your experience 
going through that in Eugene?   
Pupilli:  That was a really difficult time. This group, Oregon Citizens 
Alliance sort of just popped up and started to dictate how we 
should live our lives or not live our lives. Even though it brought 
the community together, the lesbian community together and the 
gay community together, it really separated us from the straight 
community and allies as well as foes because we were so 
untrusting. We didn't know who we could trust and who we 
couldn't trust. The pressure from Oregon Citizens Alliance was so 
great that— I mean, I got to the point I would not go into 
Springfield. I did not feel comfortable walking around in 
Springfield by myself or with others. Still takes me a little while 
now to feel comfortable.  
Long:  Can you explain what that looked like in Springfield? What were 
the overt expressions of homophobia in Springfield?  
Pupilli:  Well, I mean, just people being attacked on the streets, yelled at, 
having things thrown at you. I mean, even now, actually, probably 
two months ago now that we're with the Trump administration. 
Two months ago, I was standing outside of the WOW Hall in 
Eugene with a friend just talking to her. We had just finished 
working out. We were standing there talking and this fellow in a 
truck drives by and goes, "Bloody dykes!" It was so shocking to me 
because firstly, we're in Eugene. I didn't expect it. Then secondly, 
it's like, "Oh, yes, reality. Here we are. This is what's going on in 
this time." Whereas in Measure 9 and 13, I expected that. I expected  
to walk down the street and somebody to scream something at me  
or throw something at me.  It was just, I felt, very unsafe.  
Raiskin:  When you say it brought the lesbian community together, can you 
remember how that was or in what way it brought the community 
together?  
Pupilli:  Well, I think a lot in just community organizing, how we're going 
to fight against this. What are we going to do? There was a lot of 
support around the women's health clinic, making sure that 
women were safe coming and going there because that was sort of 
seemed to be a target as well. The gay clubs or what there was at 
that point in time, just making sure that people weren't walking by 
themselves, leaving anywhere by themselves. Making sure that 
there was always a certain number together, keeping women safe 
at that point. The whole AIDS piece was also at that point in time. I 
remember with Soromundi, we would go and sing at people's 
death beds. That was incredibly wonderful and painful at the same 
time.  
 There was so much within ourselves that was suffering that we had 
to deal with. Just to have to deal with this external force coming 
towards us.  It was really difficult piece. I think the women as well 
as the gay men just got together and just support each other, as well 
as being  active and getting ads in newspapers and things like that 
and getting people activated to vote against the measure. I think we 
did a lot of our own counseling and just being together and just  
supporting each other and just trying to move forward and move 
through it.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel that people were suffering psychologically or 
physically under that kind of pressure?  
Pupilli:  I think both. Yes, definitely. Oh, yeah, because it was just constant. 
We would defeat one measure and then another one would come 
up. It just kept going. It didn't seem like there was any relief. Then 
straight allies started coming out. We were gathering more and 
more momentum in a larger community, which is what we needed 
to do to really break through this.  
Long:  At any point, did you think about preparing to leave Oregon if the 
Measure 9, particularly, passed? 
Pupilli:  I had thought about leaving. Yes. For other reasons, but I had at 
one point— Yes, it was all just sort of building up. I thought, "Okay, 
I can just leave." But I  didn't. I'd been here five or six years. I'd 
already sort of set my roots here. I had a community. It just didn't 
feel the right thing to do at that point in time. So, now, if Trump 
gets reelected, then maybe I'll seriously think about it. But yeah, at 
that point, we were a team. We were a solid force.  I couldn't have 
left in the middle of the fight.  
Raiskin:  So what did you do in the mid to late ‘90s? 
Pupilli:  Mid to late ‘90s. Okay, all right. I started working at the City of 
Eugene actually in 1993 and retired from there  in 2016. I was there  
for a long time, more than I had ever thought I would be. I started 
working there on the Energy Assistance Plan, so helping low 
income folks with their energy bills.  
Raiskin:  So was that your social work skills that got you that job?  
Pupilli:  Yes, it was a temporary job. But yes, it was my— so I was drawn to 
it because of my background. Again, working with working class 
people. That's where I started. Then I actually got a permanent job 
in recreation. Working with people with disabilities and seniors. 
Again, I could use my social work skills in that setting as well. 
Then I got bounced around just because of ballot measures and so 
on in Eugene. But all the way through, I joined the union very early 
on, AFSCME.  Okay. Do you want me to spill that out?  
Long:  Yeah. What is that?  
Pupilli:  Okay. Let me see if I remember. American Federal State and 
County Municipal Employees. I joined AFSCME but I was actually 
quite involved. I became a steward. Then I became vice president. I 
bargained two of the contracts for us, the workers. That was a 
really rich time for me. I was able to put my political leanings into 
working for a government agency, which I'd never done before. I'd 
only worked in nonprofits or collectives. It was my way of kind of 
balancing the bureaucracy that I needed to deal with.  I found 
different— one of the positive things about working in a 
bureaucracy is that I could move around. I did move around to   
different departments. I was part of the diversity group for public 
works. We would put together different activities. 
 We actually did a photo exhibit just like CALC has years ago with 
photos and people's interests. We would display that and lots of 
different things.  
Raiskin:  What was the theme of the photo exhibit?  
Pupilli:  It was called “We Are Your Coworkers.” So, just to get to know 
who it is that sort of cleans your streets, or who it is that picks up 
the leaves or who it is that sits behind a desk in the computer 
department. We asked certain people if they would be willing, and 
we got a nice cross section actually of race as well as economic 
backgrounds. We would have a photo of them and just basically 
something about themselves. It was really well received. That was 
one of the many things that we did. I was on the joint labor and 
management team trying to think of, on a larger level, on how we 
can improve relations between labor and management. I was 
always out. I did not ever feel it was necessary to hide who I was.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever get any negative response to that identity?  
Pupilli:  No. Not that I can think of.  
Raiskin:  I know you can't compare Eugene city bureaucracy with other 
cities. But what was your impression of Eugene as a city, the 
bureaucracy that makes the city work?   
Pupilli:  I thought the city did a lot of really good things. I thought it went 
out of its way, excuse me, to get feedback and to hear what people 
had to say and ideas. I think they did that process very well. 
Whether they followed through on that or not is— sometimes was 
a different matter. But I think they seem to involve a lot of the 
community into decision making. The bureaucracy itself, I guess to 
some extent, it depended on who the city manager was at that 
point in time as to how it functioned better or not. At that point in 
time when I started with the city, it seemed more of a family.  
 It seemed people had been there for a number of years. It was much 
more relaxed. People were really genuinely happy to be at work 
and doing what they were doing and connecting with others. That 
changed. As  the years went on, it became a lot tighter. Personalities 
changed. People left, of course. Things change. City managers 
change. Then they drove the ship in a different direction. It felt like 
there was a lot more— when  I was in the union in the early days, 
there was a lot more cooperation between management and labor. 
As the years went on, it seemed like management was coming 
down a lot harder on labor. The negotiations were really 
antagonistic.  
Long:  Excuse me. What were your impressions of the mayors of  Eugene 
when you were working in city government?  
Pupilli:  Well, some better than others.  It's an interesting setup because as 
workers, you respond to the city manager, but the city manager 
responds to  the mayor and the council. Sometimes, they're  at odds  
with each other.  It just really depended on who was heading it up. I 
mean, I think we had some good mayors and some that weren't so 
good.  
Raiskin:  Do you think growing up in a socialist country informed your 
understanding of labor in the United States?  
Pupilli:  Oh, yeah. Totally. Totally. That was one of the things that I was so 
frustrated here, was the political situation. That's why I wanted to 
become a citizen as soon as I could so I could vote because it was 
really hard not to be able to vote.  The politics in this country is 
really— even when the democrats are in power, it's just so foreign 
to me. For a country that has all this wealth, that we can't treat our 
people better than we do. Still, it doesn't matter if it's democrats 
or— I mean, it's better. But still, it just is shocking to me that we 
don't have healthcare. It's shocking to me that people are on the 
streets living on the streets. For the power and money that's here, 
it's just the priorities are very skewed. Yes. So, definitely being 
from the socialist country.  
 Now, Australia is going through its own right wing backlash now, 
too. I think it's a global movement  that's happening now.  
Raiskin:  Going back to the lesbian community, do you remember conflicts 
within the community or differences or struggles?  
Pupilli:  Well, I mean, besides personal struggles, there were conflicts. I 
mean, Soromundi went through major split very early on. I think 
that really destabilize the whole community because I think  
Soromundi was sort of this pinnacle that brought people together. 
It was a place where you could feel safe and feel good. After the 
first five years, there was a rupture.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what it was about?  
Pupilli:  I don't clearly remember what it was about, but I'm sure if you 
interview some of the folks from Soromundi, you'll get more of an 
idea. So there was a rupture. There was a lot of people that left. 
There was a break for a while, and then it sort of started to rebuild  
itself in a different way. That was the only major, I think, break that 
I remember of conflict in the community.  
Raiskin:  What was the attitudes about sexuality in the community?  
Pupilli:  Well, I think it was pretty restrictive. As I said, you get into a  
relationship and you're staying there, your relationship. Then there 
was this kind of like serial monogamy that kind of happened. It's 
like you're interested in somebody else, but you're in this 
relationship. So you start to sort of stray this way and then you 
break that relationship, get into another one and then continue on 
down the path. That seemed to be a typical way that lesbians that  I 
knew, handled that piece. I found that restrictive. That's why I use 
that word.  
Raiskin:  What would be your vision of it if it were not restrictive?  
Pupilli:  Well, I think just talking about sexuality in that attractions happen. 
Does  it mean that you need to break this relationship to go there?  
Do you want to go there? Just having more openness, I think, about 
it. I think with more open communication, I think I could have— 
Things may have still changed or they may not have, but I think 
that broke a lot of groups of women that were together because all 
of a sudden, you're all one— We used to have a dinner club that we  
would rotate once a month. There were three couples once a 
month. We'd go to one of the couple's house and they would make 
dinner. Then the next month, we'd go somewhere. We'd sort of 
rotate around.  
 Well, in the end, none of those couples are together anymore. 
Things happen, but I think if there would be more communication, 
and I don't think they even see each other or we don't see each 
other as— but if it was just, okay, this is something that happens. 
More communication, more openness, then I think we would still 
remain connected in some way whether— 
Raiskin:  Did you experience judgment in the community about who's a 
good lesbian or what it means to be a good lesbian or what it means 
to be part of this community?  
Pupilli:  Oh, yeah. Right. You're right. I mean, I think so. I think if the more 
active one was, or the more connected into— there’s  a separation 
again. Those that would go to the bar and supposedly drink or so 
and so forth as opposed to those that were more politically active. It 
still was the same thing. It still happened here as well. There was 
sort of this internalized homophobia that, well, you're obviously 
not as valued as much as I am because you're out drinking every  
night and I'm doing all this good work here. I think that did exist. I 
think that's a little less now. I'm not really sure. I'm not really 
connected so much to the larger lesbian community.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think that is?  
Pupilli:  Well, that's interesting because I thought about that after we met. I 
think what happens with assimilation is you become disconnected. 
Because when I grew up being Italian in Australia, it took a long 
time for us to be accepted. Tolerated, accepted, and then we 
assimilated. Before those three steps, we were the only family in the 
neighborhood that were Italian. When Italians would come from 
Italy, we would be the ambassadors. We would tell them where the 
resources  were  just to make them feel a little bit more at home. We 
would get to visit with them. That's how we would have our 
socializing as well.  
 The area would build up with more Italians and more Italians. 
Then you have an Italian neighborhood. You'd have a Greek 
neighborhood, Chinese neighborhood, etc. Then as people become 
more accepting, and people are out in the world more, they're 
stepping out, they're working and so on, they move away. They get 
assimilated into the greater community. Well, that's the same thing 
with lesbians and the gay transgender movement. Well, not for 
transgender at this point. But what happened  was we isolated 
ourselves and we're isolated because of who we were that we built 
this community really strong. We moved around in groups and we 
lived close by.   
 As we become more accepted and assimilated, we all move into the 
larger culture. Therefore, we no longer have that nucleus. When we 
came together for the orientation session for this project, I sat in 
that room and there were women that I hadn't seen for like twenty  
years. It was like, "Wow. Why is that?" We still live in Eugene, 
which is a tiny town. Then I started thinking, Oh, this is what 
happens when you become part of the larger community.  You live 
your life in the larger community and not so much in the lesbian 
community. We can see it. I saw it with all different ethnic groups 
in Australia and we'll see it now. The trans folks now are just 
starting to fight the fight as we all are. Then in a number of years, it 
will probably happen there as well. Yeah.  
Long:  You've been here in Eugene now for almost— 
Pupilli:  Thirty  years next year.  
Long:  Thirty  years.  So, I'm wondering if— well, let me backtrack for a 
second. We've heard that Eugene had the largest per capita 
population of lesbians than any other city in the United States. 
Then it was eclipsed by another city. But have you thought about 
why that might have been? Why were there so many lesbians in 
Eugene? Why was there such a big lesbian community in Eugene?  
Pupilli:  I have no idea. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, maybe it was 
part of the women's land in Southern Oregon. Women wanting to 
break away again from the establishment  and wanted to come out 
west and set up their own community and their own oasis, I guess.  
Maybe because of that, it just started to grow. I don't know 
specifically why Eugene, but maybe that was part of the beginning.  
Long:  We've also heard some people suggest that maybe it was because 
Eugene already had a reputation for being counter-culture. But 
then there's the question, why was Eugene counter-culture?  
Pupilli:  Uh-huh [affirmative].  
Raiskin:  That it was affordable.  
Long:  Affordable.  
Pupilli:  Yeah. That could be. Right. It was not a big city like Portland. Yeah. 
It's more affordable. That's true.  
Raiskin:  What was your feelings about or your continued feelings about the 
marriage equality movement?  
Pupilli:  Great. I think that really coalesced the struggle for gay and lesbian 
folks because I think a lot of straight people, heterosexuals, could 
see. That was like, "Well, that doesn't make any sense that you can't 
marry who you love." I mean, I think that really pushed us into 
being accepted into the wider community. I think it's wonderful. I 
remember people lining up to get marriage licenses and things like 
that. It was very exciting. It was very exciting.  
Raiskin:  Do you think that has had an effect on the community?  
Pupilli:  Yeah, I definitely do. Being able to adopt children and have 
children ourselves. Again, these are all pieces of, I think,  
assimilation. It's like, "Yeah. We're just a family just like you are. 
We want the same things.” I think as we show ourselves, the more 
we show ourselves, the more I think people fall in love with us.  
Anyone that shows themselves, you will fall in love with really. So 
yes, I think that was just another piece that really cemented the 
relationship with like-minded folk.  
Raiskin:  So you're retired now.  
Pupilli:  I am.  
Raiskin:  What is that like for you?  
Pupilli:  Blissful. It's great. I get to create my life the way I want to have it. 
That means deciding what that is. I still think I'm in transition. It's 
been a year and a half. I'm still deciding, what am I going to do for 
the next thirty  years of my life? I didn't want to rush into 
volunteering for this, that, and the other because then I would just 
fill my time up again, and I'd be in the same situation, similar 
situation. So I've really been just taking time and just sort of 
transitioning and being— just following a path that seems natural 
to me at this point.  
 I've been doing a lot of things that interest me, dancing, and Tai 
Chi, and walking. I love to walk. I've traveled quite a bit just 
because I have family in Australia and Italy, so it's easy. But I've 
just done a couple of the Camino de Santiago hikes. Last year, I did 
a 200-mile trek in Spain. This year, I did a  200-mile trek in Portugal. 
That's a great way to see a country and  meet the people. It's just to  
be walking through, met amazing amount of wonderful people, 
both that are  also so-called pilgrims and people that live there. I'm 
just trying to find where that spark is going to take me for the next 
twenty-five years. 
Raiskin:  Do you see any specific challenges or benefits to aging as a lesbian?  
Pupilli:  Yes. I think as lesbians, and this is a generalization. Well, for 
myself, I think we're much more active than possibly our 
heterosexual allies. That could be that maybe not all of us had 
children. That could be a piece of it. I think we're much more in 
tuned— These are all sort of generalizations but more in tuned with 
our physical and emotional health. I think generally, I think we're 
aging more gracefully. But there is definitely a concern. It's like, 
"Well, what is going to happen? There are no retirement homes for 
lesbians or gay men or trans."  
Long:  That we know of.  
Pupilli:  That we know of. Well, not here. Right.  That seems like the next 
natural step. I know there's been a lot of talk about that. There's 
been talk about community housing projects where everyone has 
their own house, but it's the community. So you're still connected in 
one sense or the other.  
Raiskin: But how is that going to happen?  
Pupilli:  Yeah, right. Yes. We need— 
Long:  Your organizational skills.   
Pupilli:  There we go.  
Raiskin:  And there goes your retirement.  
Pupilli:  —people with money. Right. Exactly.  Exactly.  Yes. I mean, we need 
people that will invest financially because that's going to be a big 
piece of it. Yes, come together and it will obviously be a collective. 
We'll have to decide consensus. That's a concern because— I think 
by the time we get to that point where we need these services, I 
think some of the ones that exist now will be inclusive, and we'll be 
able to live there fine, but it won't have the same focus.  Maybe 
comfortability or safety. Just really depends, but yeah, that's 
definitely a project for the future or project for now as we're aging.  
Raiskin:  Because we're interviewing people who are fifteen  years older than 
you who are saying, "What are we going to do?"  
Pupilli:  Right. Yeah. It's true.  
Raiskin:  When you look back at these thirty  years in Eugene, what would 
you say is your greatest joy?  
Pupilli:  Wow, my greatest joy. I think learning to be an outdoors person, I 
guess. I was living in the city, so I didn’t hardly do anything like 
hiking or skiing or anything like that. But in Eugene, it lends itself 
to all that. I think feeling more grounded in myself the more that I 
am outdoors. It could be just walking from here to there. But just 
being in nature, I think, has really grounded me so much more. I 
think that's probably one of the overall— I feel, again, safe. I can  
walk down the street here in Eugene and know that there's 
community that will support me. I think that's also— being  
recognized. You can say like, "Oh, hey. Hi." I like that small town 
feeling even though it's growing pretty quickly, but I think that's 
definitely a joy. Camaraderie.  
Raiskin:  Is there anything we haven't asked you about that you want to tell 
us? 
Pupilli:  I don't think so. Nope.  
Raiskin:  So then I would ask you if you imagine this video  being watched 
by a young, queer person what you might tell them given all your 
experiences of your life.  
Pupilli:  Wow. Just be true to who you are, really. We spend so much time 
pleasing others or holding ourselves to some standard that other 
people or maybe ourselves have put on us that we struggle. I think 
being really comfortable in your own skin, I think, is the gem.  
Raiskin:  Thank you very much.  
Long:  Thank you so much.  
Pupilli:  Okay. Thank you.  
Raiskin:  It was really nice.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  