 
Long:  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University 
Archives. This is an oral history interview with Flaxen Conway on 
Thursday, August 29, 2019, taking place in the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ recording studio in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’  Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.  
 Flaxen, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Conway:  I do, indeed.  
Long:  Thank you. So let's just begin with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early  background?  
Conway:  I was born in 1957 in Washington, D.C. at the Women's Hospital. I 
was raised working class with a mother from West Virginia and a 
father from North Carolina. I have one sister who's nine years older 
than me. Wasn't exactly a particularly happy childhood, but it 
instilled in me some skills that I've used throughout my life. I'm 
pretty independent, and I wasn't afraid to move from Maryland to 
Oregon, far away. I moved to Oregon in 1978.  
Raiskin:  What brought you here?  
Conway:  Love. I met  my then partner, her name was Marty, and I met her in 
Maryland where I was going to college, Saint Mary's College in 
Maryland. And she was from Oregon, and I came out here to visit 
her once in a summer, and I fell in love with the place. I always tell 
people that my relationship with Oregon lasted a lot longer than 
that relationship.  
Raiskin:  Had you had girlfriends before her?  
Conway:  I did. I had one girlfriend before her who was my first real 
girlfriend, I guess, in college, but I had— My first girl I ever kissed, 
I was twelve. Yeah, her name was Patty. Yeah, it was very 
traumatic.   
Raiskin:  Why?  
Conway:  Well, it was wonderful and traumatic all at the same time, because, 
you know, this was, let's see, '69? It was the summer of love, but 
not if you're a lesbian, so.  
Long:  Did you have a sense that you were a lesbian or did you know the 
word lesbian at age twelve?  
Conway:  No. Probably some epitaph of it, but not the word lesbian, you 
know?  
Raiskin:  Not a lot of images then.  
Conway:  No, no, I just liked girls. I knew I liked girls more than boys. Boys 
were boring.  
Raiskin:  Did you go to Catholic school?  
Conway:  No, I did not. No. But I always liked dating girls that went to 
Catholic school because they were always so smart. Just kind of 
how that went, I guess. Yeah, no. I guess when I was in high school, 
I was more entrepreneurial than I was sexual, and so I  did a lot of 
various different things. And then when I graduated from high 
school, I took a trip across country with a friend, and we stayed in 
San Francisco with her gay brother. I was like, "Oh yeah, this is it." 
And so by the time I got back to Maryland, I already kind of knew 
that I was like, "I'm not going to try to be straight anymore." You 
know, I had my final boyfriend in college, and I told him, and he 
was heartbroken and I was sad that I had broke his heart, but it was  
just like, that's the way it goes, you know? And from then on out, 
it's just all been girls.  
Raiskin:  What were you interested in academically in high school and 
college?  
Conway:  Oh, that's a great question because I never thought I'd go to college. 
I was raised working class and so when the high school counselor 
would say, "What do you want to do?" And I'd be like, "Be a 
secretary," and they would like, "No, you're not going to be a 
secretary," you know? And it was really interesting because I was 
like, "Well, why not?" Like I didn't have any social consciousness 
about rank and all of those kinds of things. It was very interesting. 
So I was— 
Raiskin:  And they must have been impressed with something about your 
academic something to— 
Conway:  Yeah, I was one of those kids. One of the skills that I learned of 
growing up in a dysfunctional family is do well on the outside, you 
know? And so I always got great grades. I knew how to test well, 
and so I got great grades, and while I was getting great grades, I 
was selling weed and doing drugs and doing all the stuff that you 
do when you're in high school. And then when I decided, I think I 
worked for about a year or two after high school and I decided, 
"Well, maybe I'll do this college thing." I went down to Saint Mary's 
College in Maryland, which I called the country club because there 
were only a thousand students there at the time, and I had been in  
a high school that had 3,000 students, so it was smaller than that, 
you know? I would get up, like I took sailing and I— I mean, I got 
credit for sailing. It was like, how great is that? And plus, the 
instructor, Carina Ingersoll. I still remember her name. Oh, my 
God. She was so beautiful. And I was like, "Well, I got to go do 
that." I learned how to sail so I could be there with Carina.  
Raiskin: How were you paying for college?  
Conway:  Skin in the game. Yeah, just loans and working. My mother, bless 
her heart, never complained about anything, but she would say 
something to me like, "Well, you know, it's been nine years and 
you're still in undergraduate school." And I'd be like, "Yup, Mom, I 
am." So it took me nine years to get through undergrad, and then 
graduate school went a lot quicker, but a lot more debt.  
Raiskin:  But you came here after a year of college or— 
Conway:  No, I went to Saint Mary's for a couple of years, and then I went to 
Colorado State for a year, and that's when my partner, who I had 
met in Maryland, Marty, she was in Oregon and I was in Colorado, 
and that just wasn't going to work for me, so I moved out here and 
finished up at OSU, and then went on and got my graduate degree 
at OSU. Now I work at OSU, so go figure. I know, it's different than 
what you think. Right?  
Long:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. So what did you get your B.A. in?  
Conway:  I got my B.S. in horticulture and I got my master's in horticulture, 
but I don't do any work related to horticulture. It's weird. Careers 
are strange. You know? I am a full professor in a college that I've 
never taken a class in.  
Raiskin:  What college is that?  
Conway:  College of Liberal Arts.  
Raiskin:  What do you teach?  
Conway:  I have a three-pronged job, I guess it would be. I am an extension 
specialist with Oregon Sea Grant, so I do community-based 
education. I don't know if you know much about the extension 
service. And then I'm also a researcher in the College of Liberal 
Arts in the School of Public Policy, so I have a research program 
that I've had now for thirty  years, and then I am also the director of 
a graduate program, Marine Resource Management Graduate 
Program. So that teaches people how to be coastal planners, and so 
I teach courses for that now. Yeah, that I never had any training in, 
but most people that know much about teaching, and I hope this 
doesn't offend you, fellow professor, but is that you just have to 
stay so many steps ahead, and I teach only graduate classes, and 
those are mostly discussion-based.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Conway:  Anyway.   
Raiskin:  I'm trying to figure out the timeline of this. So you came, Marty was 
in Oregon. She was from Oregon?  
Conway:  Yes. So my first girlfriend in Oregon, her name— I'm sorry, in 
Maryland, was Remy. Okay? And then I met Marty, and Marty and 
I were together for eight years. And so Marty was from Oregon, so 
I moved out here to be with her, and that's actually— I was with 
Marty when I was at Starflower. I moved to Oregon in 1978. I had 
been very interested in horticulture at that point, and so I got a job 
working for a landscaper here when I first moved out. I mean, still 
people— It was so interesting because I loved Oregon,  but my first 
November I was landscaping, and it was one of those Novembers 
that was foggy the entire month. I'd wake up in the dark, I would 
go work in the fog all day. I'd go home in the dark, and I was like, 
"Oh, baby, you got to know I love you that I'm sticking with this." 
You know?  
Raiskin:  Yeah. Did you know that Eugene was a place that lesbians came to?  
Conway:  I had no idea. No. In fact, it's really interesting, a wonderful 
woman, but was never really that interested in the lesbian 
community, Marty. Me on the other hand, I was like the tattoos and 
all that stuff. I was totally into it. When I was working in 
landscaping, it was fine. I love plants. Horticulture was a fantastic 
passion. It was a terrible career for me. For me. And I was starting 
to think, let's see, '78. I was 21 years old. I was hard to get out of the 
bathtub because I'd worked so hard all day, and I was like, "I'm not 
going to be able to do this my whole life. I'm going to need to do  
something else."  So I looked in the skills bucket and said, "Well, 
what can I do? Well, I can drive anything." Right? And so I saw this 
ad in the paper: "Truck Driver Wanted, Feminist Collective," or 
something like that. I was like, "Hm." Three-twenty-five an hour." 
Well, sure, I can do that. And so that's how I came to Starflower.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what your interview was like at Starflower?  
Conway:  Oh, my God, do I ever remember my interview, because I had my 
family. I guess that was— which was interesting. Anyway, came to 
visit me, which was  a huge deal for them to come all the way out to 
Oregon. My mother, my sister, my sister's two kids, and I took 
them over to Sisters, and we ate at a restaurant over there. I knew 
that I had the interview the next day, so I was like, "Got to get back. 
Got to get it all together." We got back that night and I started not 
feeling great, and not feeling great, and not feeling great, and so I 
got food poisoning. I remember my interview, this is kind of gross, 
but I'll share it anyway because this could happen to you. I pulled 
over on the side of the road going to my interview, cleared my 
stomach of all of its contents, drove up, and there they were, the 
truckers, on a picnic table on the outside of the building, all five of 
them or six, I don't even remember now  how many, but you know, 
beautiful, strong women, and here I'd been hanging my head out 
the side of my car kind of thing.  I was like, "Okay, okay." I get there 
and had the interview and just said, "I can drive anything. Driven 
stuff my whole life, tractors, trucks, anything," and so they were 
like, they really weren't all that picky, I'll be honest.   
Raiskin:  Do you remember who they were?  
Conway:  Oh yeah, it was a Christie Juniper. I don't remember her— that's 
what she went by. Christie Juniper. Joanne King, who now I think 
goes by Jamie Queen. That's awesome. Rakar, was Rakar one of 
them? Connie Pernue, maybe. I guess Tina. I think Tina Brown was 
already there. I don't know if Sly was there, Deb Cleveland, who 
went by Sly at the time. That's terrible. I don't really— I remember 
Gail's interview because I was on  the committee that hired Gail 
Pyburn, and we were like— I mean, she got out of her car, we were 
like, "She's hired."  
Raiskin:  Why?  
Conway:  Oh, because she was cute. I mean, you know, and she was a bad-
ass, and that was pretty much it at the time.  
Long:  What year was this?  
Conway:  Well, my interview was in 1979. Gail's, I couldn't mess that up, so I 
don't know, like '80, '81 maybe. I don't remember which year we 
hired her.  
Long:  And where was Starflower at that time?  
Conway:  It was on McKinley.  
Long:  McKinley.  
Conway:  Yeah. In fact, we laugh because I haven't been there in a long time, 
but one of the upgrades to the building, we got a new loading dock  
put in, and they had to put concrete down. Somewhere in there is a 
Flaxen and Marty with a little heart. It's probably completely worn 
out by now. But yeah, isn't that sweet?  
Long:  That's sweet.  
Conway:  It was really sweet. In concrete forever. Like I said, my relationship 
with Oregon lasted a lot longer. I still love her, but you know.  
Raiskin:  Was Starflower like— Can you describe your time there?  
Conway:  Oh, it was amazing and crazy and sometimes horrible all at the 
same time. You know? For me, it was like all these women, and I 
just wanted a truck driving job. You know what I mean? I'd walk 
in, and I really had very little social consciousness at that time. It's 
embarrassing to admit, but it's true. And so, like I walked in one 
time and I had on a leather vest or something like that, and they 
were like, "Oh, wearing dead bodies now," or something, and I was 
like, "Yeah, isn't it great? I love it. It's elk. It's really—" and they 
were like horrified. My awareness was not there.  Or like we'd have 
these— I don't think there were any men when I worked there, 
actually. I think there were men before me and maybe men 
afterwards, but not while I was there, and so we'd have all of us in 
that upstairs room having a collective meeting, and whether or not 
we'd carry something that had sugar or whether we'd carry 
something that had caffeine in it or whatever, and I was trying to 
take it serious, but at the same time, as truckers, we're gone most of 
the time and everything, and so there was a little bit of, you know,  
you can't really take the truckers seriously. Can  I use curse words 
in this?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Conway:  Oh. Okay, awesome, great. So, we'd be like, "Fuck you, man. We're 
out there driving like 10,000 miles for $3.25 an hour and you're 
going to be telling us you can't take us seriously?" That was a 
interesting— I mean, I loved it. It was really, it was super 
fascinating. Now as a social scientist looking back at it, it's like— I 
wish I could take a time machine because it was really interesting 
the kinds of things that would cause riffs or not, or like the cast— 
Raiskin:  Can you remember what it would be?  
Conway:  Well, you know, like the truckers were the bad-ass, and then the 
second level bad— Forgive me to any of the other folks of 
Starflower if this offends them, but truckers were the bad-ass, and 
then there  were the forklift drivers, and they were like the second 
bad-ass, you know? And then there were the office workers, and 
it's like, really, we're just all human beings. Right? But there's a 
certain— 
Raiskin:  Well, it sounds kind of gendered too.  
Conway:  Well, a little bit. I mean, there weren't a whole lot— There were 
lesbian truck drivers and heterosexual truck drivers, women. We 
had one woman, oh, I wish I could remember her name. Oh, she 
was an older woman, like she was like my age now, but we hired  
her then, and she was so cute and she had kind of a bouffant hairdo 
with like Wranglers that came up to here with a big belt buckle and 
everything, and she was awesome. She was a great driver, and 
when we were out in the snow, I mean, she was solid. But I don't 
know. I'm sure she was like, "I work with all these lesbians." Oh, I 
can't remember her name. That's terrible. Oh, well.  
Long:  Maybe it'll come to you.  
Conway:  Maybe it'll come to me. If it does, I'll— 
Raiskin:  It would be great to hear her perspective on everything, being 
older.  
Conway:  Oh, absolutely. Like I remember the first time— Can I go back and 
forth? Is that okay?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Conway:  So when I got hired, they were like, "Well, now you have to prove 
to us that you can drive the  truck," and I was like, "Okay." They 
sent me with one of the drivers, I'm not going to mention any 
names, who was pretty piercing, her voice, and so it would be like, 
"What are you doing?" You know? So at the end of that driving test, 
man, my nerves were shot. I was just like, "Do I really want this 
fucking job? I don't know," kind of thing. But once that was over 
and I got the seal of approval, it was all good.  
 I still remember my first trucking run was with Paula Jo Vaden. 
God, love that woman. She was just as crazy then as she is now. I  
remember we met at Hoot's, I think it was called Hoot's, Hoot's 
Diner at three o'clock in the morning. I lived in Marcola, so I would 
drive in for this. I remember meeting her at Hoot's and climbing up 
into the cab in the passenger seat, and turn on the music blaring at 
like 3:45, and slapping the dog house, singing along with it, and 
you know, she's a singer.  
 Oh, so that's an interesting thing. When you're in a cab with 
somebody like that, you get to know them in ways that you 
wouldn't otherwise. The whole time, every trucking trip I took with 
Sly, who was singing? I was singing. I can't hold a note more 
than— I mean, less than I could hold that pencil. Okay? I'm singing 
at the top of my lungs of every possible thing, not a peep came out 
of her mouth. Right? And I was like, "What the hell?" I didn't know 
that until it was all over and she got her singing career  as Deb 
Cleveland. I remember I went once to one of her concerts and I 
went up to her afterwards and I was like, "You wench. Man, all 
those years you could have been singing to me in the cab. What?" 
So, yeah, she's a fantastic, great driver, wonderful woman, has a 
fantastic voice. She was holding out on me.  
Raiskin:  What were those runs like?  
Conway:  Oh, some of them were just crushing and some of them were a 
blast.  
Raiskin:  Where'd you go?   
Conway:  I went to Boise quite a bit. I went to Portland. I did the Portland 
run, the Boise run. I did the coast run. Basically I did all of them. I 
didn't do— Some people did the same ones all the time. I did the 
Bay run, San Francisco about once a month.  
Raiskin:  And were you always delivering?  
Conway:  Yeah. Yeah. You know, the Bay run had a forty-foot trailer, and it 
was filled with yogurt, and we would drive over to Nancy's 
Creamery when it was— I guess it was Springfield Creamery, 
Nancy's Yogurt when it was in Springfield on that little teeny tiny 
street in that little  teeny tiny building, and we'd have to pull the 
truck over there and then open up the back, and they would be 
tossing up cases of yogurt, like big boxes like this filled with 
yogurt. That's why we were all so buff, because you loaded up 
40,000 pounds of stuff by hand, and you unloaded it by hand. It 
was crazy.  But I remember doing that once with Chuck Kesey and 
some of the other Keseys, and that's just a period in time. It was 
really cool, actually. Now, now that I know. I'm reading Sometimes a 
Great Notion, and I'm like, "Jesus Christ, I was with those people." I 
mean, not the people in Sometimes a Great Notion, but certainly— 
Yeah.  
Raiskin:  So you didn't live with everybody at Fourth  and Adams or 
wherever people were living.   
Conway:  Yeah. You know, I was kind of married at the time to Marty. It's 
interesting because so many Casanovas, and I didn't do any of that. 
I was kind of boring.  
Long:  Where did you live?  
Conway:  I lived in Marcola in a house with Marty up there while she went to 
school here. But I mean, we would all celebrate. I guess the closest I 
came to that was we moved from Marcola into a house in Elmira 
where we lived with one of the other truckers, Annie O., and then I 
moved from there. We moved from there to a place in Almaden 
where we lived with Cheryl Pellegrini, and then Marty left the 
picture and I stayed around there for a while, and then I moved up 
to Monroe. So no, like Lanier Lobdell. I don't know if you 
interviewed her. I hope you did. She wasn't a trucker, but she was 
with— Well, she was. She drove for Garbagio's. 
Long:  The recycling.  
Conway:  Yes, the recycling. She was always the best source of stuff because 
people would like— I'd like, "Damn, where'd you get that jacket?" 
And she'd like, "Yeah, somebody threw this away." I was like, 
"Well, shit, if you find another one of those, I want it." That's fun. It 
was very fun.  
Long:  Can you tell us what was the best thing about doing the trucking 
for Starflower and what was the worst part of trucking?   
Conway:  Okay, very good. Well, the worst part was trying to drive a tractor 
trailer in freezing rain over the pass. You know, that was the worst 
part. And just being just dog tired, really, really tired. It was a lot of 
work, a lot of physical work. But I tell you what, it's 1979 and I saw 
this every day. I'd look down and I'd see somebody doing this— 
You know? "Wow, it's a woman." Because now you see women 
driving truck all the time, but you didn't back then. And I had long 
hair back then, and it was just that part was cool. It was like, "Yeah, 
that's right. There's nothing about this truck that means that you 
have to have a penis to drive it." You have to have your senses and 
you have to have some good judgment, and it's a trip.  We had all 
cab over trucks. I don't know how much you know about trucks, 
but there's the kind that have the conventional, that have the long 
part in front, the engine.  
Long:  Where the engine is?  
Conway:  Right. And then there's others that come flat down and the 
engine's— That's what the dog house is, is the big kind of— It's 
usually covered over with like cushion and leather or whatever, 
and that's how you get to the engine was down through the center. 
That's what we had, were cab overs, and we had twenty-seven-foot 
trailers and we had a forty-foot trailer, and the forty-foot trailer is 
what went down to San Francisco. We'd take all the Nancy's Yogurt 
and other assorted stuff, and then while we were down there, we 
would just— Well, actually, on the way going down to— we'd 
make a couple of stops and deliver to food co-ops or whatever.  
Right? And then we'd get down to the Bay Area. This is a long-
winded answer to your question. You might have to ask me again 
because I think I've already forgotten it. But so you'd get down 
there and you'd be making these stops all the way down there, 
dropping off different things, and then you finally get to the place 
to get rid of all of the yogurt, which was fantastic, and then you'd 
have an empty box, and then you'd go over the Bay Bridge. Just 
that feeling of being in that big truck, dog tired, coming over the 
Bay Bridge to all that knowing that you had the next day off and 
you were a girl in the city was pretty fun.  
Raiskin:  What'd you do in the city on your days off?  
Conway:  Well, so there were two of us. When it was two drivers, it was 
really great because then you could switch off, right? So you 
weren't as tired. Sometimes it was just one driver that had an 
assistant to help unload, but like Sherri Yeager  was another driver 
that I did the run with every now and then, Tina Brown. I never got 
to do one of those with Pyburn which really makes me sad, but 
anyway, like Sherri was— As Gail would say, Sherri was a hussy 
because she had different girls down in San Francisco that she 
would see. One of them she named Dangerous Dixie. We would go 
down there, and it was really fun because it was like— We didn't 
have cell phones back then. Right? You had to like, "Did you write 
her? Did you tell her that this is the weekend? Are you going to go 
down and see her?" And I'm like a third wheel on the thing 
dragging me into the bar, because I'm married at the time, or not—  
partnered. And so we would get down there, and we stayed at 
Hotel El Dorado, which was owned by gay men, and they'd be like,  
"Oh, the Starflower girls are here," and they would fawn all over 
us, and we were tired, and it was just so much fun. We'd park the 
truck kind of almost right out in front of where they were because 
it was not in the best part of town, but it was a really  nice hotel, and 
we'd go up, and we'd party, and we'd kick back and sleep, and 
we'd get up the next day and it was like, "Okay, it's our day in the 
city." So we'd do all sorts of things. We'd go to gay pride. We'd go 
to— 
Raiskin:  Did you go to any of the bars there?  
Conway:  Oh, yes.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember them or any of their names?  
Conway:  Yeah, because that's where Dangerous Dixie worked. No. I 
remember the girls, I don't remember the bars.  
Long:  And who was Dangerous Dixie?  
Conway:  She was a bartender. I have no idea. I don't even know what her 
real name was. But Sherri Yeager did. She got to know her real 
well.  
Long:  In a gay bar?  
Conway:  Yeah, yeah.  
Long:  A lesbian bar?   
Conway:  Yeah, a lesbian bar.  
Raiskin:  Maybe Maud's? 
Conway:  Mod's sounds familiar. 
Raiskin:  Could be Maud's. 
Conway:  Yeah, it could have been Maud's. That sounds good.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Conway:  Yeah, yeah. You know, it's interesting because San Francisco was 
like the grown-up gay place compared to Eugene. You know? I 
mean, Eugene was just  a little Eugene. When I came to Eugene in 
1978, it was 1978. It was a recession. There were like three ads in 
the newspaper for jobs, and so when you think, "Oh, my God, you 
drove tractor trailers for $3.25 an hour and it's one of the best jobs 
you ever had?" Yup, because I had a job, which was awesome. So 
that's kind of a detour from San Francisco, but— 
 So, for us to go down to San Francisco, we were not city girls, but 
we had it all because we were there and have just a great time 
while we were there, and then we would get back in the truck on 
Monday morning in rush hour traffic and just drive through San 
Francisco. That's where I learned how to— You're merging on, you 
put your blinker on, and you just go. If they don't want to get 
crushed, they move the  hell over, and that was— I mean, you can't 
necessarily do that in a Honda Civic, but you get that kind of 
confidence of that's how you have to drive in this place, and I loved  
San Francisco back then. I loved the gay pride. I loved the bars, the 
women bar. The gay men were always super excited to see us. That 
was really fun.  
Raiskin:  You said that, looking back at Starflower as a sociologist now, what 
else do you remember about it that's interesting to you now?  
Conway:  Well, we had systems to try to learn  how to communicate. Like we 
had criticism, self-criticism system. Did anybody talk about— I 
don't know if anybody talked about that, but it was funny because 
we'd say, "Crit, self-crit," and of course, what did the truckers do? 
We'd get back together and it was, "Well, what happened?” “Well, 
clit, self-clit, let me tell you." Irreverence. But you know, looking 
back at it as a sociologist, it was important because everything had 
to be by consensus, and so we needed systems to be able to say, "I 
don't agree with you," because you know how groups of people 
are. They lump up together, and it would have been very easy to 
overpower, and there was a little bit of that going on, caste system 
kind of thing. Right? But for the most part, we ran a successful 
business for a long time, and we ran it out of hard work and 
dedication and systems, systems to operate by. I mean, even the 
trucking system, like we had— I can kind of remember it a little bit. 
We had a board up, and we had to figure out who was going to go 
when, and it's hard on you. It was a physically demanding job, so 
we didn't have the same people for long periods of time. People 
would get burned out.  And so you had to have systems, and you 
wanted to stay legal, well, kind of legal, legal enough, and you  
wanted to be as good on everybody as you could be. When I was 
there, you would go down to the warehouse before you were 
leaving, and you could just take three bottles of juice and nuts and 
all this stuff and sign it out, "Flaxen took a pound of cheese." 
There's no wonder why it— I don't remember when it was, but at 
one point it was like, "Stuff's walking out of here. We got to get a 
little bit more clear on this."  
Raiskin:  Do you remember there being drama at Starflower or what that 
was about?  
Conway:  Yes. Yes. Well, you get— This is terrible. I don't remember how 
many women, like forty  women, forty-five women. It seemed like 
that many. And you know, people were cranky and bitchy and 
crying and in love with each other and then in love with her lover 
and all of that. So that, in one way, I stayed out of that because I 
was married. It was kind of a shield, to be honest. But I mean, I 
missed out on, it.  I can remember when Lanier's fiftieth  birthday, I 
think it was her fiftieth  birthday party we were talking and— or, 
oh, no. Well, I'll just finish that one. So we were talking about how 
all the girls that were at the party, like Lanier was with her at this 
point and this point and this point and this point, and I was like, I 
was single at that time, and I was like, "Yeah. I'm having what you 
all had when you're twenties, I had when I was fifty." Or one time 
Sherri Yeager and Lanier and I were at Art in the Vineyard, and the 
two of them, who were like super Casanovas at the time, where 
they're sitting there and they  were like, "Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Her, yup. Did her. Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Yeah, her over there." It was terrible, on one hand. It was funny on 
another hand, so you have to decide which lens you want to look 
through. And then a couple of them were like, "Oh yeah, those two 
at the same time," because it was 1978 and it was fun. It was sex, 
drugs, and rock and roll, you know? So, yeah, drama.  
Raiskin:  What were the social things that you did in Eugene at the time?  
Conway:  So many different things. I brought some things with me that I'll 
show you later, but we would have these parties, Starflower would 
have an annual party, and there were different things like songs 
that we'd sing and that kind of thing, and the truckers would 
always come  up with something. One time we came up with, 
remember the song “Working 9 to 5” by Dolly Parton?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Conway:  Well, we changed the words to five to nine, "Working five to nine, 
that's no way to make a living." You know? And we all stood up 
there. It was hysterical. I wish we had it on film, because it was 
fantastic.  Other social things, I think certain people did more social 
things together. The truckers would get together periodically, but 
you know, we were together at work, and when we weren't 
working, we were tired, so we were kind of boring I guess when it 
came to that. We had most of our excitement when we were on the 
road, but I know a lot of people did.  
Raiskin:  Did you belong to— were  you on a softball team  —  
Conway:  Oh, yes. 
Raiskin:  —or did you go to the bars or did you go to bookstores or any of 
the restaurants or— 
Conway:  I actually maybe do have memories locked in there somewhere. 
Thank you for the questions. Yes, I was on a softball team. I think a 
lot of us were on softball teams. I have no idea which one it was. I 
wasn't really very good, so I think they stuck me in the place where 
you put people who aren't very good. We went to the bar, I went to 
the Riv  Room of course.  I remember one time we had a party, we 
would have these— Oh, Flaxen, I can't believe you're actually going 
to share this story.  But, we would have what were called “Poor 
Taste Parties.” And so we would have like, hanging on the doors, 
the knocker would be artificial breasts, things like that. I had, at one 
point, I had dressed up as somebody else in the collective who 
came. That's always a good time. Or somebody else dressed up as 
like Kate Elliott's parents. That was super fun because— Oh, I think 
it might've been Pyburn. Was it Pyburn? Oh, it could've been, 
where she wore like a white stretch jumpsuit because that's exactly 
the kind of clothes the Kate's  mother would wear. Oh, it was 
hysterical. So, Poor Taste Parties.  And then I mentioned the Riv 
Room. One time at the Riv Room, I don't think it was Halloween, 
but we would have dress up stuff, and I remember one time Arlene 
Billie came as “Baby on board,” Arlene, who's not with us anymore, 
who was a warehouser, and was a large voluptuous woman, and 
all she had on was like a sheet for a diaper and she put a big piece  
of plywood on the back. So that was kind of the stuff we did. So 
yeah, it was fun.  
Raiskin: When did you go back to school?  
Conway:  I went back to school in '82. I think I left the collective in '82, '79 
to— I think I worked there three years, and it was hard. It was hard 
to leave fun and all that craziness, but again, I was thinking, "I'm 
beat at the end of the day. I'm tired. I need to do something besides 
just use my body." So, of course then I get a degree in horticulture, 
which is, what do you do then? Use your body. But I didn't stay in 
horticulture long after that.  
Raiskin:  And so you went to OSU?  
Conway:  I did. I went to OSU.  
Raiskin:  And you commuted there or you moved back?  
Conway:  I, at that point— Well, no. Before I stopped being a truck driver, I 
was living in a communal house. It's all coming back to me now— I 
was living in a house in Alpine, a three story, A-frame house in 
Alpine with Tina Brown and her partner at the time, whom I can't 
remember which one that was. Um, and Kay Monroe. Anyway, I 
lived on the top floor of that, and then I started going to school 
there.  So I have fantastic memories of the other truckers. All really 
interesting and unique people. Some of them, excuse me, some of 
them a little bit— Like my longest lasting friendships came from 
that era of my life.   
Raiskin:  Are you still friends with them?  
Conway:  Some  of them. Some of them I still— like Pyburn and I, Gail 
Pyburn, who her truck— we had trucking names. Did she tell you 
any of that? Oh, we had truck driver names because you have to 
have that, because we still had CBs back then. Remember? God, 
what's that now, right? People will be like, "CB, that's oil isn't it?" 
No, that would be CBD. So Gail's trucking name was Arnie. Arnie 
Lou Worken. Yup. And mine— well, and Kate Elliott, I'm sure 
people have talked about Kate Elliott, rest her— 
Long:  No. 
Conway:  Oh, really? Kate Elliott was probably one of the best truck drivers I 
ever drove with. She was really, really good. We did the South 
Coast run together. Excuse me. We would have to pull up in North 
Bend in front of the Coos Head Food Co-Op, and there's three lanes 
there, and we would have to parallel park the truck in that area. It 
was with the smaller trailer, the twenty-seven  and a half foot 
trailer, but it was still hard. And she could just, like she could pull 
up— In fact, I gave Gail a newspaper article about that I think that's 
in your collection. It has a picture of Kate Elliott on the front. I don't 
think I'm in the picture because I stayed out of those, but I mean, 
she would just pull up and just pop it right in there. She was 
awesome.  And so Kate's  trucking name was Kip O'Leary, so it was 
Kip O'Leary, Arnie Lou Worken, and mine was Wonder Flame, 
which we would just cut to short for Flame because I was always 
going, "I wonder about this," because I'm an inquisitive type of gal.  
And so I would be like, "I wonder about this. I wonder about that," 
and they were like, "You're just a wonder flame," and that was it. So 
then it was Flame, Kip, and Arnie. Every now and then we got to 
do— In fact, I brought a photograph of the three of us in the truck.  
Raiskin: Wow.  
Conway:  Yeah, it was cool. Very, very cool. So absolutely long lasting 
relationships. You know, all of us went on and did different things, 
but those were important times in developing as a person. Women 
who came and went in our lives, and then eventually children, like 
Gail had a child when she came and applied for Starflower, 
Melissa, and that was a big deal. I don't think any of the other 
truckers had kids. I don't remember. I don't think so. We had a few 
people that came— Dorothy. Was that her name? No, Dorothy was 
a different one. She wasn't the one with the bouffant hairdo. 
Dorothy was a trucker who came for a while who always wore 
cowboy hats, and I did a lot of runs with her. I'd went to a training 
on refrigeration with Dorothy down in Medford. That is like the 
most boring thing to say in the world, I'm sorry, but that's what I 
remember about Dorothy, and that she loved country music and I 
didn't, and so they didn't have iPods back then. You just had to 
suffer through.  
Raiskin:  Could you say anything about when you broke up your 
relationship, thinking about how relationships worked in those 
days when there was no marriage and there was not a lot of 
support, how did that come to be, your breaking up?   
Conway:  It was just, there was no social support. I was with Marty for eight 
years, and when we split up, I was pretty crushed by the whole 
thing, even though I knew it wasn't working well and you know 
those things, but nowhere do you get anybody saying to you— the 
social system saying to you, so that's a lot what Starflower was, or 
the Eugene community was for me, was they were the people that 
said, "Oh, I'm really sorry," unless they were the ones that were 
dating your girlfriend, and then they weren't saying that. But yeah, 
no, no social support. So  you know, places to go, places to frequent. 
You brought up earlier Mother Kali's Bookstore, feminist 
bookstore, really important. Zoo  Zoo's was a feminist collective 
restaurant. Mama's Homefried Truckstop, which was right down 
here on— 
Long:  Fourteenth. 
Conway:  Fourteenth. Thank you. I still remember going in there. There was a 
real cute waitress in there. Those were all really important to us. 
And then of course, because we were the truckers, we were 
delivering the food to all of those places, so they knew you. We 
were the face of the organization at times.  I'm proud of being a 
truck driver. It was fun. In fact, I have a little button, I meant to 
bring it with me. Damn it. I left it in my car. That Judy Goldstein 
made for me. I'm sure maybe you interviewed  Judy. Oh, everybody 
loved Judy. All of us love Judy. Judy, Judy, Judy. And she made me 
a button that said, "How dare you presume I've never driven 
semis," and that hangs in my car to this day. So it was a really  
special time in my life, a special time in Eugene, because it was in 
the recession. Nobody had money. Nobody paid a lot for rent, 
nobody owned homes. We were just getting by, but we were 
getting by together, and we were doing work that we felt really 
proud of. You know, we were bringing good food and— 
Raiskin:  Do you remember the anti-gay measures?  
Conway:  Oh, boy.  
Raiskin:  And what was that like for you?  
Conway:  Yeah, Ballot Measure 5, wasn't that the first one I think? I think it 
was.  
Raiskin:  The anti-gay ones was eight and nine and 51.  
Conway:  Oh, shit. That's right. Eight. Yeah, was eight the first one?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Conway:  Okay, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I remember- 
Raiskin:  Maybe 51 was a city ordinance one.  
Conway:  Yeah, I don't, obviously, I'm not remembering all the numbers 
correctly, but I do remember just like, "What the hell?" You know? 
"Why is this happening in Eugene?" But again, as being a truck 
driver, we were out of Eugene a lot. We were delivering in Sweet 
Home. We were delivering in Coos Bay. We were delivering in 
places  that weren't flying rainbow flags, and we would pull up and  
people would check us out. I mean, we'd walk in. If we stopped for 
meals, when we would stop for meals and we would walk in, we 
had on Carhartts, or pre-Carhartt, I think. What did they call it? 
Benny King’s. You know?  I mean, we had work clothes, and we 
were strapping strong women back then. It was nothing to have a 
fifty pound bag of flour on each shoulder going up a flight of stairs 
that was twenty  stairs high, and you just carried it up there because 
how else you going to get it up there? But you'd be that tired and 
you'd walk in, and people would comment on you. "What are you, 
a boy or a girl?" I was asked many times walking into the women's 
bathroom, "What are you doing in here?" And I'd be like, "Same 
thing you are."  
Raiskin:  With your long hair and— Yeah.  
Conway:  I know, but I didn't have big boobs, so that was it. I know, believe it 
or not, that's how people would decide. And it was the late '70s, 
and a lot of men had long hair still. By the '80s, it was all the short 
spiky stuff, but back then it was long and just pulled back in a 
ponytail, and I kept my hair braided or in a ponytail a lot because it 
was hot and everything, but yeah.  
Raiskin:  Were you friends with any of the tree planters?  
Conway:  The Hoedads.  
Raiskin:  The Hoedads.   
Conway:  Oh, they scared the crap out of me. They were even wilder than we 
were. They were wild. I was at some parties with them and 
couldn't keep up. They were— 
Raiskin:  They also left Eugene and came back the way you did as a trucker.  
Conway:  Exactly. Yep. Exactly. But they were crazy wild. Because they were 
just out planting trees, you know?  
Long:  Are you talking about the women, the Full Moon Rising crew of 
Hoedads? I think you— 
Conway:  Maybe I am.  
Long:  —probably are. Yeah. The women who were the tree planters. 
Okay.  
Conway:  Right. Right, yes, thank you very much for that. Yes, I just 
remember women tree planters who would think nothing about 
having a pint of whiskey in their pocket and start drinking it at 
nine o'clock in the morning. I was just like, "Holy crap." And just 
tough, because that work was way more physically demanding 
than what we were doing as trucking, because we were sitting 
down for a good portion of the day. Right? And they were climbing 
and in the weather and everything, and sleeping in wet tents. I 
mean, they made us look like cushies. So, yeah— 
Raiskin:  Well, they had a certain status.   
Conway:  They did, and we were— They were— kind of thing. But although, 
several of the truckers dated them, and there was a lot of 
intermingling back then. Yeah, no, but it was really a fantastic 
social experiment. I was really sad when Starflower went out of 
business. I remember that and just going, "That just sucks." There's 
a lot of lack of social support, that kind of thing, and I don't know, I 
wasn't involved in the business end of it that way, you know?  
Raiskin:  Have you been able to describe that time later on in life? Have you 
been able to describe your experiences in a way that felt like people 
understood what you were talking about?  
Conway:  That's a really good question. I think I'm probably doing more 
describing of that right now in this minute than I've talked about it 
in a long time. I mean, if Gail and I get together, or some of the 
other truckers get together, we talk about that time. But you know, 
I haven't really— and I mean, as a professor, I have a lot of students 
that come and go, right? I direct a graduate program, so it's they're 
there for two years  and then they're gone, and some things never 
change, which means that my “gay-dar” was broken back then and 
it still is. I mean, like I will have students that will come in and 
they'll go, after they've been there six months or eight months or 
something like that, "Well, my partner and I," and I'm like, "Oh, 
really? Get out of town." You know? So it's really sad but true 
that— So I haven't talked to anybody at the university or anything 
like that. I'm sure they'll be interested in this. I'm going to tell them 
that I participated in this with the Women's Center.   
Raiskin:  I think a lot of them have said that, that they have not been able to 
describe to others what's happening here, and I'm curious about 
why that is.  
Conway:  Well, I think this is really interesting because you are helping us to 
remember how special and important that was. To us, it's just our 
life. To me, I was twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-
four  years old, stupid. You know what I mean? Like, hard working, 
did some amazing things, but it wasn't like something that I would 
write a book about, but it's good that people are, or capturing it in 
this kind of way because it was a pretty interesting time. The vision 
that the people who started Starflower  had, Margaret and Jane and 
Margaret's husband, I can't remember his name now. It doesn't 
matter.  
Long:  Oh. 
Conway:  Do you know who I'm talking about?  
Long:  Yeah. 
Conway:  Yup.  
Long:  Yeah.  
Conway:  Okay. So I mean like, it's cool. I mean, that was a cool thing, just 
like there's cool things that are happening now that people are 
going to want to remember forty  years from now. Right? So, yeah, 
no, I'm glad that I was part of it, but I haven't— That button, every 
now and then if a student rides in my car or a fellow faculty  
member rides in my car, they'll say, "How dare you presume I've 
not driven semis?" I'm like, "Semi. Semi." And they're like, "Get out 
of town. You were a truck driver?" And I'm like, "Yes, I was." 
They're like, "As in like, like a big truck?"  And I'm like, "Yeah, like 
as in a big truck," you know? And it was a fantastic job. One of the 
best jobs I've ever had.  
Raiskin:  And how do you think that experience and that time influenced the 
rest of your life?  
Conway:  Oh, well, it definitely solidified that I was going to stay a lesbian for 
the rest of my life. I mean, no time while I was at Starflower did I 
go, "No, I'm not quite sure." You know? I always definitely wanted 
to be with women.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever have negative feelings about— or internalized 
homophobia growing up- 
Conway:  Doesn't every gay person have internalized— 
Raiskin:  But like at what age?  
Conway:  Oh. Well, like different periods throughout your life, I think, 
honestly. We were very proud of who  we were, and we were also, 
we had each other. Like we weren't getting a whole lot of social 
support for being— That, "Wow, it's a woman," thing sometimes 
was followed by, "What the fuck are you doing?"  One time I 
remember we would have to, in the morning,  on Monday morning, 
we would have to go down to the docks there at the bridge, at the  
Bay Bridge in San Francisco. There's that big port. I can't think of it. 
Maybe it's the Port of San Francisco. I don't remember now the 
name of it, but I remember us pulling in there, having to back up 
between, and you're like backing into this little narrow thing where 
just your trailer fits, and so you have to have your shit nailed 
down. All of the teamsters would come out and stand on the docks 
and go like this and just  watch you, and I remember just like, "I 
don't care how long this takes, I'm going to thread that fucking 
thing in there." You know? And I did, and all of us did. I mean, we 
were really good truck drivers, and then what could they say? They 
never said, "Good job," ever, because it was threatening to them. 
We were taking their jobs. We're hearing a lot of the same kind of 
shit now, and it's like fear is ugly. It's not very pretty.  
 So we had each other, and if you had to do what's called a blind 
side back up, they're articulated, right? So if this is your truck and 
this is your trailer, if you can back up this way, you can see, but if 
you back up this way, you can't see because all you have is your 
mirror and sometimes you'll lose sight of your mirror. Inevitably, at 
that place, you would have to do, part of it would have to be blind 
side, or you'd have to do one of these this way and then back in 
here, and you just got really good. In fact, it's funny that you 
should ask me that because the other day I was watching this 
young man who was backing this trailer that had like a backhoe or 
something on it, and all the guys were standing around him, and 
he's backing— he's obviously having a little bit of a hard time with 
it, and there was a part of me that was like, I could just walk up and  
say, "Well, I could do that for you if you'd like." And I thought, 
"No, don't do that to him, because if you did that to him, it would 
be like those men doing that to you." Plus, I don't know if I could 
still do it, but probably could. 
Raiskin:  But probably that gave you some kind of confidence for the next 
things you did.  
Conway:  Yes. Well, it did, which was your question. Thank you for the 
reminder. Yes. I mean, I said I am a full professor in a unit that I've 
never even taken a class, so I don't want to say fake it till you make 
it because that's not really true, but there's a certain part of that of 
just work hard, learn as much as you can, fully immerse yourself 
into what you're doing, and I didn't know anything about driving  
tractor trailers delivering organic food on the West Coast, and I 
worked hard, I immersed myself, and I did it. So, yeah. And again, 
I think some of those skills from my childhood.  
Raiskin:  Is there a community in Corvallis that you're connected with? A 
lesbian community or something that— 
Conway:  Well, yes and no. I'm so much older now, so that's not the part 
that— I mean, there are other lesbians that I connect with in 
Corvallis, but that's not the biggest part of my social network. I'm 
an introvert, so  I don't really spend a whole lot of time socializing 
anyway. And you know, the lesbian community is wonderful and 
awful all at the same time. Not to be dualistic, but just it's kind of 
like when you're walking by somebody, and it's been this way  
forever, and you know they're lesbian and you know they're 
lesbian, and what do you do? You look at your feet.  Over the years 
I've tried to train myself to look them in the eye and make a nod or 
something like that, just because we need that, that sense of 
belonging. That said, I've met plenty of crazy lesbians in my life. 
Not crazy as in mentally unstable, as in mean and power hungry 
and just like every other human being that is that way, and so it 
didn't really matter to me that they were lesbians. They just weren't 
nice people.  
Raiskin:  On your campus, is there gay and lesbian faculty organizations 
or— 
Conway:  There's not. Well, if there is, I'm not part of it, so I don't want to 
like— I'm probably ignorant here, but I have definitely mentored 
undergraduate people if they find out about me or whatever. I'm 
obviously a lesbian, and they're going to know if they see me, 
because their “gay-dar” probably works and mine doesn't. And 
other faculty, gay faculty, I have a colleague that I've done quite a 
bit of work with who's gay and we hang out every now and then, 
but again, it's mostly what we do is we work together. You know? 
So— 
Raiskin:  I think it's interesting that you interview commercial fishermen.  
Conway:  I do.  
Raiskin:  Now, do you know how to— I don't know what to even call it, 
drive a boat?   
Conway:  Well, so I interview them at their boat on shore. So, yeah, no, I work 
with commercial fishermen, and I try to capture their stories just 
like you're doing here because I think a lot of people don't 
understand what that community is like. It's an occupational 
community. You're talking about a community of interest, or I 
guess orientation, would that be called a community of interest? I 
think so. I should know that.  
Raiskin:  I could use that.  
Conway:  Oh, okay. Occupational community is just a different type of 
community of interest, and it's really important for people who 
have a lot of opinions, maybe, about seafood or natural resource 
harvesting or something like that, and it's like, these are people. 
They have families. They risk their lives. And whether or not you 
are vegetarian or you eat fish or whatever, what they do, fish is a 
really important protein in the world. And so, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Is there a question that you ask them that is particularly revealing 
that we should ask you?  
Conway:  Yeah, no, that's great. I'm sorry, you got me on the work mode 
there. I ask them things like, "What's the most— Just tell me stories 
about fishing, like when you got involved." So you're doing great. 
You're doing just what I do. I  don't know if that's great, but you're 
doing what I do. Or I say, "What's some of your favorite times? Or 
what are you most proud of?" Fishing, commercial fishing is not 
just an occupation; it's a way of life.   
 So as faculty, I don't really— It's a fantastic occupation, but it's not 
my way of life, so it's a little different. And being a lesbian is really 
important to me. I adore my partner, and I can't imagine my life 
without her. And you know, I've been in tons of gay parades and 
that kind of thing, and  I guess if there was some sort of gay cause 
that I needed to rise up for, I would do it, but there's so many other 
things in my life that I focus on. So I'm really glad you're capturing 
this because it's important for people to understand, especially I 
think young people who are— Like, it gets better. Isn't it Dan 
Savage that that's his thing, it gets better? It's really true, because so 
many other things come up in your life. If I had to order myself of 
like what's important to me, my partner, my spiritual beliefs and 
practices, the earth, my child. They're all things that are important 
to me. My friends, my family, my family of friends. I'm not really 
close with my blood family, so my family of choice has been very 
important to me. And when they, just like everything else, and that 
comes and goes, that's hard.  
Raiskin:  Tell us about your child.  
Conway:  That's a interesting and sensitive topic, but I have a son that I 
actually had. That was a trip, because I never as a truck driver 
would have ever told you that I was going to be pregnant, but it 
was the wildest science experiment you'd ever have in your life. I 
felt utterly alone when he popped out because having him in there 
was like company 24/7 for nine months. I used to make jokes about 
how I'd walk into  meetings at work and they would treat me  
different, and it was because I had balls. Hey, they're only 
microscopic, but they're in there. I swear to God, people would 
know, and they would treat me with more power.  
Raiskin:  How old were you when you were pregnant?  
Conway:  That's a great question. I had him when I was thirty-eight, so yup.  
Raiskin:  Was being a lesbian significant to you, being a mother?  
Conway:  Yes, because I had— it was really interesting. When you are 
pregnant, you are instantly part of a club that I had never been a 
part of. Nobody was asking me about why I was going in the 
restroom then, you know? That social acceptance as soon as he 
popped out was gone, so that was pretty interesting. And when he 
was little, still, the parent-teacher conferences and all of that stuff, I 
was a very, very engaged mother and that was really important to 
me to be that, but then there were things like the coach, like you 
take your— I think it was first grade basketball or something like 
that, and it was just one of the other kids' dads, and I mean, there 
were some great dads. This guy was not one of them, and he was 
just screaming at them the whole time. I was just like, "Fuck this. 
He's going to end up hating sports because of this," and I'm not a 
huge sports person, but you need to not— So the next year I was 
like, talked to the other parents and I said, "I don't know how y'all 
feel, but if you want, I'm going to start a basketball team for the 
second graders, and if any of you want your boys to be with me, 
I'm happy to do that." I think we called ourselves like the Green— I  
let the boys decide and it was something like the Green Ghosts or 
something like that. I mean, little teeny guys that would just walk 
out on the court with their hands in their pockets and look around. 
The guy would've been screaming at them, and I'd be like— Oh, 
damn, I can't remember the kid's name. Anyway, I'd be like, "Take 
your hands out of your pockets. Up here. Up here. Put your hands 
up. All you have to do is just run around with your hands up, just 
like this." You know? I gave them all names and stuff like that. It 
was really fun. I loved it. I did that for a few years until my son was 
like. "Mm-mm [negative]. Don't do it."  
Raiskin:  Were you partnered when you had him?  
Conway:  I was until he was five, and then we split up.  
Long:  What year was he born?  
Conway:  1996.  
Raiskin:  So sometimes when you're a sole woman parent, men want to step 
in, particularly I think  if you're a lesbian, men want to step in and 
show the son how things are done. Would you have that 
experience?  
Conway:  Oh, of course. I mean, people would say, "He doesn't have any men 
in his life." And I was like, "Yes, he does." "But he doesn't have a 
father." I said, "I had a father. It really wasn't all that much fun." So 
it was, yeah, a lot of that, a lot of that boys need men kind of thing. 
Boys need good people, just like girls do, you know? I mean, he  
had sleepovers at people's houses with dads, and he'd come home 
and he'd be like, "Nick's an asshole," and I'd be like, "Yup, he is." 
You know?  
Raiskin:  Did you belong to any lesbian and gay parenting groups while you 
were raising him?  
Conway:  No, no.  
Raiskin:  I didn't know if there were any in Corvallis. 
Conway:  There might have been. You know, it's I— 
Raiskin:  There are a number in Eugene. I just didn't know if there was any— 
Conway:  Yes, no, I was in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  Oh, you were in Eugene.  
Conway:  I raised my son in Eugene the whole time. Yup. Yup,  yup. Twenty  
years I commuted from here to Corvallis.  
Raiskin:  What schools did he go to?  
Conway:  He went to, oh, God, I should know this. He went to Corridor 
Elementary, which I loved the teachers there. That was— 
Raiskin:  Juggling and— 
Conway:  Juggling.  
Raiskin:  —unicycle.   
Conway:  And acting. Yes. He was in several of the plays. Loved that. Went 
and painted all those things with all of those— did all the stuff that 
parents do. And then he went to Kelly Middle School, and then he 
went to North Eugene. Yeah, I lived off of River Road. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What part of your life or your time in Eugene did we not ask you 
about that you might want to talk about?  
Conway:  Well, one thing I will say is Eugene has changed a lot since 1978. I 
mean, not only are there more  people here than there were then, 
but when I first got to Eugene, it was peace, love, and rock and roll. 
You could walk by somebody's house on Almaden and Eleventh  
and they'd be smoking a joint, and you'd walk up and take a couple 
of hits and keep walking. I mean, that was the way it was back 
then.  And there was a lot of, "Well, when our people get in power, 
we're going to do things differently," but as you can see, what 
happens is people grow up and they get a little bit more 
conservative and they become the people in power that are 
supporting the systems that keep things going the way they are. 
That sounds really negative, but— So I guess there's a lot of things 
that I've seen in Eugene. I think there's still probably a really strong 
lesbian community in Eugene. I don't know. I don't spend a whole 
lot of time here. There is a small lesbian community in Corvallis 
that are all nice enough to each other, but communities can be very 
in and out, like in-group, out-group kind of thing, and I think that's 
because that's what makes people feel comfortable.   
 I'm trying to think of other things about Eugene. The downtown, I 
mean, that's been really interesting to watch from 1978 until now. 
Close it off, open it up, put the statues there, put the stuff around 
the statues so people can't stand on the— you know. I was thrilled 
to see it seems a lot more alive now than it was, believe me, in 1980.  
I mean, it was awful. Corvallis has a beautiful downtown and it's a 
very alive downtown, so that's really nice. My partner doesn't live 
in Oregon. She lives in California, and when she comes up here, it's 
such a culture shock for her because she lives in the Bay Area, and 
it's so white and it's so straight here, but you know, we'll walk 
down the streets of Corvallis and she'll hold my hand, and we've 
never had anything happen. Knock on wood, we won't.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any thought about aging as a lesbian? 
Conway:  Yeah, that's a good line of— well, aging is just humbling all the 
way around. I think it's interesting. Will we experience more 
homophobia as we move into assisted living and all of that kind of 
thing? I often thought any uber wealthy lesbians— All you uber 
wealthy lesbians out there that are listening to this, we'd really like 
you to set up some lesbian assisted living houses for all of us in 
various states because it would be really, really good. That could be 
kind of nice. That would be a way  to come back into community. I 
think having kids, kids growing up, it's interesting. When I had my 
son in 1996, The Register-Guard  would not put my partner's and my 
names in there, and so we put our first initials only and  
resubmitted, and they put them in. Now that's not the case. You 
can— 
Raiskin:  Years later, lesbians took out an ad of retroactively announcing 
their babies because they couldn't do it originally.  
Conway:  Yeah, it was crazy. So I worked with the Women's Fertility Clinic, 
Paul Kaplan, I don't know if you all have heard about Paul. Loved 
him. We used to joke about how much we all loved Paul. He could 
have been the donor for all of us because he was such a great guy. 
He did not do that. I want to make that perfectly clear, for all the 
legal authorities that might be watching this, but once a year he 
would have a Mother's Day party, and all of us would come with 
our kids, and it was really awesome. It's kinda like a Michael Franti 
concert. I always think when I go to a Michael Franti concert, those 
are all the people I want to spend the rest of my life with because 
they're all so happy and everything. Well, this was the same way, 
all those wanted, really, really, really wanted children, and people 
who loved them dearly, and that was really special. So you know, 
that would be a nice thing, like if there was a from the beginning of 
life through the middle to the end, there was a we all belong kind 
of thing. I'd like to live in that world.  
Raiskin:  So at the end of many of these, because a lot of the young people 
that I teach and that are interested in this want to hear from older 
people, particularly gay people. Do you— 
Conway:  Ask me anything.   
Raiskin:  At this point in your life, is there any particular advice you would 
give to young people?  
Conway:  Advice?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Conway:  Okay. Oh, there's so much— I give advice all day long. I'm trying to 
think around this. Well, my son once did a report on Eleanor 
Roosevelt, which I thought was awesome, this little eight-year-old 
telling  me all about Eleanor Roosevelt, but “No one can make you 
feel inferior without your permission.” Right? And I think that 
there's so much of, when you're in your life, it's easy to feel inferior 
for whatever reason. If you're gay, you're inferior because you're 
not straight. If you're a person of color, you're inferior because 
you're not white. If you're not Christian, you're inferior because— 
like the whole thing. I would say that you're always going to have 
to do a balance between what feels comfortable for you to fit in and 
what doesn't, and have your own compass, have your own moral 
social compass, maybe? I don't know how philosophical I really am 
here, but you know, with child rearing, it took me a long time to get 
my moral compass with that because— or my compass, my child 
rearing compass, because my ex was like, "You're too hard on him," 
and then I would date women and they'd be like, "You're too easy 
on him," and I'd be like, "Oh, God, you people are killing me."  So if 
you think about that for work, child rearing, in relationships, if you 
could feel comfortable in what your compass is, that's really 
important. And so if you're in a "out-group", you're not in the  
white, male, heterosexual, top of the pile kind of thing, then you 
have to start getting comfortable with who you are. I bought a lot 
of therapists’ BMWs over the years working through this stuff, and 
it's good. Thank God for all of them, but it's helped me to— Like I 
do my best, and that's good enough.  So I always tell my students 
that, because  they'll come in, and they're all smart and they've got 
As for forever, and they come and they're like, "I got a B." And I'm 
like, "Yeah, go have a beer. You got a B. That's awesome. Go 
celebrate. That's very good." You know? It's like if the difference 
between staying up all night and packing it in your head to get that 
A on that or going out and having a good meal, relax and get a 
good night's sleep and get a B, take the B. So there's a certain part of 
that is what I'm trying to describe with the compass thing. I'm 
trying my best, and that's good enough because that's the best I can 
do. So I don't know if that's what you were looking for.  
Raiskin:  Very good.  
Conway:  This was super fun. I'll show you some pictures if you're up for it.  
Raiskin:  Thanks.  
Long: Thank you so much.  
Conway:  Thanks for having me.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  