 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Martha Pitts on August 31, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio  
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Martha, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project, and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Pitts:  I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Pitts:  I feel like I'm getting married.  
Long:  Why don't we just begin with  a basic question. Can you please tell 
us when and where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background?  
Pitts:  Sure. I was born October 23, 1960, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. My 
parents were twenty  and twenty-one at the time. They started 
dating when they were sophomores and juniors in high school— 
no, freshmen and sophomores in high school, excuse me— and 
married right out of high school. Each went to college for a year 
and then they married. My dad was in the Army, which is why 
they were in Pittsburgh. And before my first birthday, my dad's 
term in the Army finished, and we moved back to Fayetteville, 
Tennessee, where both of them had grown up, and where I lived 
until I went off to college.  
 It's a small town, about 5,000 people in rural, middle Tennessee, 
right on the Alabama-Tennessee line. It is very southern. It is very 
rural south, old south. It is a place that I did not want to live from a 
very young age, because it was just too small. It was very, very 
small, and very traditional. And I grew up in a very religious 
family, Southern Baptist on my dad's side, Church of Christ—
Campbellite Church of Christ on my mother's side. But my mom, 
being a dutiful 1960s wife, joined the Baptist Church when she 
married my dad, and we were raised in the Baptist Church. Very  
active there all through school. But I started telling people when I 
was in sixth  grade that I was going to go to UCLA to college, 
because it was as far away as I could possibly think about getting.  
 And as I got closer, I wasn't as sure about the finances. I grew up in 
a family with— we were never hungry but we never had anything 
to spare, either. So we were always one of those families that could 
have qualified for government assistance, but my parents would 
never have done that. My dad was a farmer. My mom was a stay-
at-home mom until all of us were old enough that my mom could 
do some work for my dad, and I could babysit in the summers. So I 
grew up in a very, very traditional family in the South.  
 At seventeen, I started at college, young for my class, and went to 
Indiana University. It was about as far away as I really thought I 
could get, and it was a good choice for me. It was a large 
institution. I went to a high school where I remember my junior 
year, my high school U.S. History teacher giving me back a test on 
which I'd gotten a ninety-seven  out of 100, and him saying, "Oh, 
your uncle got 100 on that test." My uncle was ten years older than 
I was. And I had a number of teachers who had taught my mom, 
and my father, as well. So, I really wanted out of that, and a place 
where I could be myself and be a new self. And I wasn't really sure 
what that meant at the time, but I just felt like there was more to me 
than I could express in a town where everything that I did reflected 
on my family, and that that was a very sensitive subject.  
 So I went to Indiana University, I did my bachelor's degrees there, I 
did my master's degree there, and then I went to work in the 
admissions office there. I didn't know I was gay when I left for 
college. I didn't really figure it out until, probably on  into my— I 
started probably figuring out my sophomore year-ish, but I didn't 
talk to anybody about it. But the group of people that I hung out 
with were— I lived in an all-women’s  dorm, at my mother's 
insistence, which I think she regrets to some extent now, and a 
number of my friends were gay. And they were all like, when I 
finally did come out, they were like, "Oh, we wondered why it was 
taking you so long." But none of us were out, and none of us talked 
about it. So—  
Raiskin:  Can I ask you a question about high school?  
Pitts:  Sure. Sure.  
Raiskin:  So, were people dating in high school?  
Pitts:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  And what was that like for you?  
Pitts:  I dated a couple of guys in high school. Our high school had a 
social club. It was a very small high school, and there was a social 
sorority kind of club that put on all of the dances, except for 
homecoming and the prom. And it was a club that had been started 
when my grandmother was in high school, same high school. And 
it was called The Gay Teens. And I was president of The Gay Teens  
when I was in high school. I just came from my fortieth high school 
reunion this past weekend, and some of my friends actually did 
comment on that, and they found that rather humorous. I don't 
think it's in existence any longer, but about ten years ago they 
changed the name of it so that it didn't appear to be gay.  
 I dated. I didn't date anybody seriously. Actually, I did. I guess I 
dated a couple of guys fairly seriously. I was not dating more than I 
was dating. My best friend always had a boyfriend. In fact, we 
were laughing about that. She dated one guy for most of high 
school. And she and I went everywhere together. We carpooled to 
everything together. I was the mascot. I was a cheerleader, but I 
was the mascot, and she was the head cheerleader, and we'd been 
best friends since we were in fourth  grade. We were talking about 
the fact that things had changed so little over forty  years because 
we were still going to the members-only dinner. We went together. 
And on the reunion night, I went with her and her husband, and I 
said, "You know, I'm still the third wheel on your dates." We've 
talked about it as we got older and as I came out to her, about the 
fact that, she goes, "This explains why you didn't date so much in 
high school." Or,  she first asked me, "Do you think you're gay 
because you didn't date much in high school?" And I said, "No, I 
think I didn't date much in high school because I was gay." And 
that made sense to her, over a period of time.  
 It was kind of stunningly refreshing, this trip. After the first 
evening's events, we sat out on the porch at my mom's house and  
talked for a while. She's still a deeply religious person, and she was 
talking about some work that she and her husband hope to do 
when she retires, and she said, "You know, our experience of 
knowing you and Tracy, after you came out, has really changed 
how we view things in the world and how we look at— and not out 
to try to save the gays, but just an openness and a progressive view 
of the world that they would  not have had in other ways. Which 
was a nice thing, because that's something that we've talked about 
and kind of worked on in our friendship over the years.  
Raiskin:  What was the mascot that you were?  
Pitts:  Tiger. Wore a big tiger head and a flannel suit. It was a very hot job, 
but it was a lot of fun. I was very social in high school, and it was a 
very social thing to do.  
Long:  It sounds like, though, that you really didn't know you were gay in 
high school.  
Pitts:  No, I wouldn't say now, I probably should have, but I don't know if 
I knew what it meant to be gay in high school. I mean, I don't know 
that I ever thought about it. And there were guys that I was 
interested in, but not ever really that much. I really did not know in 
high school that I was gay.  Really didn't figure that out till I was in 
college. I didn't- 
Raiskin:  Was there any representation of lesbians or gay men in your world?  
Pitts:  No.   
Raiskin:  Nobody out? 
Pitts:  No. No. Nobody out. There were a couple of people that I heard 
my brother refer to as fag, but I didn't know what that meant, and I 
just really didn't ask, because I really wasn't very interested in what 
his friends were doing. But there was no discussion of being gay or 
gays and lesbians when I was in school. I also come from a family, 
though, that didn't talk about sex. That didn't talk about anything. 
So this was not a family that delved into controversial issues.  
 In fact, one of the first things I ever remember was an aunt who 
was talking about Billie Jean King playing tennis,  and saying, oh, 
she couldn't be a big Billy Jean King fan because she was gay, and 
that that was bad. I knew by then that I was gay. I wasn't out, but I 
knew by then that I was gay. That was hard to hear. But it just was 
not something that was ever discussed at all.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember any clear discussion about it in church as a 
negative attribute?  
Pitts:  No. It was just, don't have sex. Sex is the root of all evil. Unless 
you're married, and then it's a good thing.  Suddenly it becomes a 
wonderful experience. But no, no, there was no discussion of that at 
all. 
Raiskin:  What made you begin thinking about it in college?  
Pitts:  I was attracted to women, but also I realized that my friends were 
gay, and that people would  talk about it kind of in a joking way.  
But again, even with that group of us that were hanging out 
together then, there wasn't very much discussion about it. We 
never went to gay bars. There was never any open discussion about 
who was seeing whom, although, we could kind of figure that out, 
but it was just not talked about. It was just something that was not 
talked about. Until later, I guess, probably in junior and senior year, 
people started to talk about it a little bit more.  
Long:  Was it lesbians as well as gay?  
Pitts:  No, it was almost all lesbians. It was almost all lesbians. I knew 
some gay men as I got on into my junior and senior year. I was an 
RA my junior and senior year of college, and I was a hall director in 
graduate school, it paid for my graduate school. And the assistant 
director of residence life was gay, and was very out, and is 
somebody who I still keep in touch with, and was a good friend. 
And so, it was kind of through him that I started thinking more 
about whether this was a step I could take. But quite honestly, I 
was really fearful from a religious standpoint at that point, because 
I knew then more about how people would think I was going to 
hell, and that maybe I would. That was a big struggle for me, when 
I finally did come to terms  with it internally, and when I first 
started dating. So that was a really hard thing, and something that I 
wouldn't say that was easy for me for a long time, until I was much 
older.  
 One of the first people I came out to was a pastor at the student 
church that I went to, the student— I can't think of what they called  
it— I knew him pretty well, and so I came out to him, and he was 
very supportive. It was a pretty progressive student congregation. 
So he was very supportive, and that was really, really helpful for 
me at the time. And it was a very good move for me. It was a really 
good way for me to learn how to reconcile who I was with what I 
believed, and to find a place for both of those, which has always 
been very important for me.  
 In fact, we still are active, Tracy and I are active in our church. It's a 
really important part of our lives. Our spiritual life, more than our 
religious life, but our spiritual life is an important part of what I 
think makes us a successful couple. But we've laughed that it  is 
more unusual for our gay and lesbian friends that we have this 
spiritual and religious dimension in our lives, than it is for the 
people we go to church with that we're lesbians. That's not a big 
deal. It's actually a much bigger lift to explain the other direction.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a belief in hell when you— 
Pitts:  Oh, yes. Oh, yes. And it's still something that can catch me up 
short. Every once in a while you still go, "Oh, I'm going to go to hell 
for doing that." But that was so ingrained. It was such a part of my 
religious upbringing, and still is for my family. It is still a really 
serious issue and concern for my family. For my mother, for my 
brother, and my sister, all of them have very, very serious concerns 
that I'm going to go to hell, or  other family members who are gay 
are going to go to hell. It's not a thing where they're looking at me 
and damning me or trying to convince me any longer that I need to  
try to change. It is just a sincere and loving fear that is very real for 
them, and very, very hard for them to figure out what to do with. 
And so, it's something that I think they, like I said, we don't talk 
about things, so they just kind of swallow it and move on. But it's a 
hard thing for them, and it continues to be a hard thing for my  
mother.  
Raiskin:  So, did you meet somebody in college that moved you along this 
path?  
Pitts:  It was actually graduate school. It was graduate school. I really 
didn't come out come out till I was in first year in graduate school. 
As I mentioned, I was a hall director, and there was a woman who's 
an RA on the floor above me who had just figured out that she was 
a lesbian and was ready to come out— and she actually lives in 
Portland now, which is really funny to me— but she's very 
flamboyant. She's a singer.  She is bigger than life. And she decided 
she was coming out, and she didn't want to do it by herself, and I 
was coming with her. So we went to the gay bars for the first time 
together, we hung out together. I got to know her family. I was 
there when she told her parents. Her parents lived in Bloomington 
at the time. I was there when she told her parents. We were never 
romantically involved. I fell head over heels in love, but we were 
never romantically involved. She was not interested in dating me, 
but we're still friends thirty-five years later.  
 In fact, a few friends from that period of my life are in Oregon now 
for one reason or another. Bloomington and Eugene are very  
similar in some ways, which is part of the reason I think that I 
ended up staying here in Eugene. It was very much like where I 
was in Indiana, and I was there for almost ten years.  
 I came out when I was in graduate school, but I didn't get involved 
with anyone seriously. Part of it was I think that the religious issues 
that I had, and the self-esteem issues that I had, kept me from 
dating anyone who was good for me, if you understand what I 
mean. So I picked partners that I would date, who I knew I did not 
want to be in a long-term relationship with. And so, that led me to, 
actually, a series of people. So I dated a lot, but not anybody that I 
really was very serious about, until probably my second year of 
graduate school. There was somebody that I was really, madly in 
love with, and we dated for a while but it didn't work out. She was 
dating several people. It didn't work out. But again, we still stay in 
contact. We're still close. She's in Louisville, Kentucky now, but we 
stay in contact, and are still good friends. So that's a nice thing. But 
I don't think I worked that out for quite a  long time.  
 But then I started working full-time. When I finished my master's 
degree, I took a job in the admissions office at Indiana University, 
where I'd done my practicum work. I started dating;  I guess it was 
the second year I was there, right in that summer. Again, I dated a 
number of people in that first year, and then the second year I 
started dating someone I did get serious about. We dated for about 
seven months, then she took a job teaching at a university out of 
state, and we had a commuting relationship for two years while I  
continued to work at the university, and then moved to Oregon, so 
that she could work on her doctorate.  
 So that's how we ended up out here, was she came out here to do 
her doctorate, and to study— there was, again, a very strong 
lesbian community in Bloomington, and she came out here to study 
with one of her master's degree advisors, who was on faculty at the 
University of Oregon at the time in Leisure Studies. So she came 
out here to study with her, and knowing that she had a partner that 
she was with. So there was that lesbian connection, and we'd heard 
Eugene was a great place for lesbians to be, and knew other people 
who wanted to move here because it was a university town and a 
great place to be a lesbian, is what we had heard, was very lesbian 
friendly.  
Raiskin:  How did they describe it? Did they describe what lesbians were 
doing in Eugene? Or— 
Pitts:  There just were lots of them, and they were all very friendly. And 
there were lots of activities. There were lots of things to do. And 
my ex was, and still is, very much of an outdoors person, and so, 
there was all the camping and the hiking and that kind of stuff. But 
a lot of it was just that it was an easy place. That it was not 
someplace you had to— Bloomington was a little more buttoned-
down than Eugene, and I didn't realize that then. I really thought 
Bloomington was wildly liberal, but once I had been here for a few 
years and actually went back and interviewed for a job there— they  
wanted me to come and work at the university there, and I decided  
not to. And part of it was, in going back, I realized it was not nearly 
as liberal as I remembered it having been. It was very liberal for me 
at the time, but after living in Eugene, it just didn't quite match.  
Raiskin:  Were  you out in your job in Bloomington?  
Pitts:  Yes and no. I guess there were a couple of people who knew. There 
were two people who I told outright, but most of the people knew 
or assumed. But I didn't make a big deal about it, and part of that 
was, one of my significant mentors there was gay, and I watched 
how she dealt with it, and she dealt with it in a very closed manner. 
She was very much a role model for me, and so I decided that was 
how I needed to deal with it, as well.  
Raiskin:  When you came to Eugene, what year was that?  
Pitts:  1986.  
Raiskin:  Okay, and what did Eugene look like to you?  
Pitts:  Oh, it looked like nirvana. Well, first of all, I had interviewed for a 
job at Oregon State prior to coming to Eugene to visit, and so, when 
I came to Eugene, I thought it was beautiful. It was everything I 
wanted to be in a university. I remember the science complex had 
just been finished.  In fact, thirty-five years later I still talk about the 
new science complex, and it's thirty-five years old. I remember 
walking past that and seeing those buildings and thinking, "This is 
an institution that's investing." It was beautiful. Like the gargoyles, 
I found just fascinating.   
 I remember sitting out on the bench, right across from where the 
Rec Center is now, just that little park. We were walking through 
there just recently, and there's a bench, and I remember sitting on 
this bench— because there wasn't a job open at the University of 
Oregon at the time, and I remember sitting on that bench thinking, 
"I have done something horrible in this life or another life, because 
this is where I should be. And I'm going to end up working at 
Oregon State." And it was very much buttoned-down, and I knew 
that that was not going to be a place, or I assumed at least at the 
time, was  not going to be a place where I was going to be able to be 
as out as I could be here, and it just didn't feel the same. Luckily, 
they felt the same way, that I was not a great fit for them.  
 And a job opened up here, a temporary job opened up here, and 
they offered it to me, which was really nice. I was on campus, 
actually, to do an informational interview. I'd sent resumes, and so, 
I had arranged to meet the Director of Admissions while I was  in 
town. He was very generous and gave me a half hour of his time, 
and ended up calling me about three weeks later. His associate 
director resigned, and he offered me a temporary admission 
counselor job with the ability to apply for associate position.  
 I remembered the sun. I remembered the freshness. I remembered 
that there was no humidity, because Bloomington was terribly 
humid, and Tennessee was even worse. And that it was green, and 
people seemed friendly and happy. I remember unicorns and 
rainbows, kind of, when I think about that very first trip to Eugene.  
We looked on the Internet, and we found out there was a great 
movie theater where we could go see a movie, and we went there 
and watched. It was a movie about Gertrude Stein and Alice B. 
Toklas at the Bijou. We went to watch that movie, and then we 
walked to the Riv Room, and walked in, and we walked out pretty 
quickly. We were kind of intimidated as we walked in there. I 
remember thinking, "This is a place with a lot of interesting things 
going on."  And, "This is a place where we could find a good place 
to be." So we made the decision that my ex was going to go to 
graduate school here, and that I would figure out something. And 
then luckily I got offered a temporary job that turned into a 
permanent  job, and that I kept for— and kept moving up in, for 
twenty  years.  
Raiskin:  So did you get involved with any of the lesbian groups or activities 
or social— 
Pitts:  It was very interesting, because in her doctoral program, like I said, 
one of her doctoral advisors was gay, and we knew that before we 
came here. And then, at the very first meeting with her classmates, 
one of her classmates was gay, and had brought her partner and 
introduced her partner to the group. And this woman was also a 
lawyer, and she introduced, "This is my partner," and said her 
name, I don't remember what her partner's name was at the time. 
And everybody thought it was her law partner, except for my ex 
and I, who said, "Oh, yeah, we know what's going on here." So we 
felt like we had a really amazing introduction to the community  
very, very quickly. And the person that we met, it was Ann 
Bunnenberg. So Ann, then, took us to Perry's. At Perry's we met a 
whole group of people, some of whom are still friends of mine 
now.  
Raiskin:  Perry's was the gay bar on— 
Pitts:  Perry's was the gay bar that was underneath the bus stop. And it 
was an interesting place. I was very nervous when I first went 
there, because I wasn't sure what being out would be like in the 
university, so I was afraid I would run into somebody there from 
the university. And sure enough, I guess about the first month I 
was down there, I did. Oh, help me with his name, he worked in 
housing, what's his name? You know who I'm talking about— 
Raiskin:  Hank.  
Pitts:  Hank. Hank  Alley. Hank Alley came in, and I thought, "I know 
him, and if he's down—" And at first I thought, "Oh, my gosh, he's 
going to see me." And I thought, "Well, he's down here dancing, 
too." But Perry's was funny because it was kind of like being in 
here. You would walk in, you know how you walk into a room and 
you walk in about three steps and then you stop and you kind of 
get the lay of the land, where's an open seat? And there was a 
spotlight right on that place, where you would walk in the door 
and stop. And so, you always felt like you were making a grand 
entrance.   
 Perry's closing down, I think, had a big impact on the community, 
because there was no need for a gay bar anymore. We lost a lot of 
community when they shut down. There was McNeighbor's for a 
while, the bar that was in the old McDonald's, and it had the disc 
jockey booth that was the former drive-through window, but that 
never quite got the same following. There was  something about 
Perry's. They did a number of things. There was Thursday night 
line dancing. And there was a woman who was a friend of ours 
that we played softball with, that would teach line dances every 
Thursday night and two-step. So we would go, every  Thursday 
night was two-stepping and line dances. It brought me right back 
to being in graduate school where we would go out on Thursday 
nights and shut the bar down. And so we came here, we're doing 
the same kind of thing, but certainly a few years older,  and shutting 
the bar down a lot earlier. But it was a great sense of community. 
We met a lot of people.  
 I've always had a job where I traveled a lot. Working in the 
admissions office, I've always traveled a lot. My ex would say, "You 
know, people ask if you really exist, because I have to come a lot of 
Thursday nights by myself." But it was a very strong sense of 
community. We met a lot of people, and built a lot of community, 
not necessarily around being at the bar, but—except for the line 
dancing—but there were a lot of people that we met there that 
became good friends that we built a really strong community 
around.   
 And then, softball was a big part of that. We quickly found 
ourselves on a softball team, which I find is always a good way to 
get to know people. And that was a big part of our community for a 
long time.  
Raiskin:  Who sponsored your team?  
Pitts:  Well, let's see. We went through lots. So the first few years, I don't 
know that we had a sponsor. We were the Falling Stars— the 
Fading Stars, because the people that made up most of the team 
were probably ten years older than I was, and felt themselves to be 
fading, good athletes, and we were, like, Women's D League Slow 
Pitch. But then, we played over the years— Old Texas Steakhouse 
sponsored us for  a long time. They're not here anymore. It was 
down in the Whiteaker. It was a pretty good little steakhouse. And 
they sponsored us for a long time.  
Raiskin:  And were you a lesbian team?  
Pitts:  Not everybody was lesbian, but the people who were not were 
mostly people who were looking for a team, didn't have a group to 
play with, and would end up assigned to our team. And they were 
always really great with us. It was never a big issue. All the softball 
teams were always out to get Peralandra's. Peralandra was a 
bookstore, and Peralandra had a team. They were serious. They 
would have debriefings and very emotional conversations at the 
end of games. Whether they won or lost, they would process. Our 
team was really mostly about going out for the beer.   
 Jennifer  Bills played on our team at a time where, she was one of 
the very first people I met in Eugene. She was in my ex's class, on 
camp counseling, and so, I met her through that. And we became 
friends. But she played softball with us at a time where she was too 
young to go out with us for beer afterwards because she was not 
yet twenty-one, and there were some police officers that were on 
the team that did not want to be sneaking her into a bar. So softball 
was a real critical part, and over a lot of years. Probably past when I 
should have still been playing, I was still catching, as long as my 
knees would hold up.  
 I remember when Karen was pregnant, and Jen and Karen were 
having their baby, and we had a cardboard baby that somebody 
had given another couple who  were on our team as a wedding gift, 
and we would put the baby up, and everybody would kiss the baby 
on the way out. Their pregnancy— and then when Greg was born, 
he was the bat boy for our team for years. He could barely walk, he 
would haul the bats off and on. And he was always part of that 
team. So it was very much of a community, a very strong 
community. It was very sad when we quit playing, but I was just 
too old to play very well anymore.  
Raiskin: So, let me think. On campus now, what's your job?  
Pitts: So on campus, I worked in the admissions office all twenty  years I 
was on campus. I was an admissions counselor for five months in a 
temporary role, and then I was associate director for, I think, like, 
four or five years, and then I was a director for four or five years,  
and then I was— must have been director a little longer than that— 
and then I was the assistant vice president for four years. Assistant 
Vice President for Enrollment Management, and Director of 
Admissions, still, for the four years before I left. So I worked in the 
admissions office that entire time.  
 Jim Buck is the man who hired me. It was a wonderful place to 
work. There's still a number of people, oddly enough, who were 
there when I started, who are still working in that office, mostly in 
administrative positions or technical positions where they're doing 
processing and things like that. The admission counselor jobs turn 
over a lot faster. But in that perspective, there's still a lot of people 
there, and people that we still see. They get together periodically 
and have lunch and will invite us, and we'll go and have lunch 
them.  
Long:  Did you like the work?  
Pitts:  Loved the work, and I still do. When I left the university, I 
consulted for a year working on some projects for universities 
around the country. Tracy and I decided we wanted to stay in 
Eugene. I no longer wanted to work at the university. I'd been here 
too long, and it wasn't where I wanted to be any longer. And so, I 
made the decision to leave before I had anything else lined up. 
Actually, one of the people who I did a good amount of work for 
during that time was somebody who I'd gotten to know in the 
lesbian community in Eugene, and who had gone on to another 
university as a vice president for enrollment, and I knew that she  
had some positions open and had a couple of projects that she 
needed to have done, and is still a good friend. And so, I called her 
and said, "I don't want your open jobs, but I would like to do some 
consulting." And so, she hired me for a few projects that first year.  
 And then, I did work, also, for the College Board, and after a year 
of doing some consulting for them, they offered me a full-time job. 
So I really didn't want to continue on as a consultant, so I took the 
full-time job with them, and I've been working with them for ten 
years now. I work remotely. I work 6:00 in the morning till 2:00 or 
3:00 or 4:00 or 5:00 in the afternoon. So I work on East Coast time. 
Our offices are in New York and Washington, D.C., and I commute 
back there about once a month, and usually am gone about two 
weeks a month. So I'm gone quite a bit, but it's allowed me to stay 
here and— 
Raiskin:  What do you do for them?  
Long:  Yeah, what is the College Board?  
Pitts:  The College Board is a not-for-profit educational organization. It is 
an access-oriented organization. It is best known for the SAT and 
for advanced placement. I've done a number of jobs for them. The 
first few years working with individual colleges, doing consulting 
on their enrollment, and strategies, and plans,  and kind of helping 
them use some of the things, the data and information we could 
provide, to build out good enrollment plans and recruitment plans.   
 And then, I worked for a few years doing internal strategy work 
and training for the higher ed  services staff. And then, the last five 
years, I've been an advisor to the president of the College Board, 
particularly around the redesign of the SAT. That was released in 
2016, but in 2013, they hired me to make sure that higher ed's voice 
was present in the development of the new SAT, and to make sure 
that higher ed leaders across the country had what they needed to 
be able to implement the SAT when it was redesigned. New scoring 
structure— well, it's the same scoring structure, but there's some 
changes  to the test, and the scores don't necessarily mean all the 
same things. And so, there was quite a bit of education along the 
way that needed to happen so that it didn't, kind of, mess 
everybody up for two or three years in their admission process.  
 Tracy says they hired me because of my Rolodex, or my Facebook. 
Now it would be my Facebook. Because over the years I've had the 
great opportunity to work with folks around the country, and so, I 
have a good connection. I have a good group of friends across the 
country that do enrollment leadership work, and this job has 
allowed me to continue to do that, but to live in Eugene, which was 
really one of the requirements. Tracy and I talked quite a bit about 
that. To have taken another job like I had, which would not have 
been a bad thing for me at the time, would have meant moving. 
And we had built such a strong and deep community in Eugene, 
that we didn't want to leave Eugene. And it wasn't about the 
mountains and the ocean, although that was part of it. It was really 
about this group of friends, and our church community, and a  
really unique community of people that we loved that we didn't 
want to leave. We have a really rich life here. We didn't want to 
lose that.  
Raiskin:  When you were on campus here for those years, were you involved 
in the Gay and Lesbian Task Force, or any of the politics on campus 
around gay and lesbian access?  
Pitts:  I don't remember being involved with that. Which kind of surprises 
me, because, I would say, when I was with my ex, I was out 
without making a big deal about it. And that was something— it 
wasn't hidden, but it just wasn't a big deal. People who knew me 
well knew that we were in a relationship. My parents did not 
know. I didn't come out to my parents until my ex and I split up. So 
I was thirty-seven  when I finally came out to my parents. It was not 
a surprise to anybody on campus that I was a lesbian, but like I 
said, I never made it a big issue. But I don't remember why I would 
not have been involved. But I just don't remember about it. 
Raiskin:  There were certain things like trying to get domestic partnership or 
opening up married student housing— 
Pitts:  I remember— I wasn't on the Task Force. I remember having 
conversations with Linda King about domestic partnership 
benefits, because that was a big issue for me at the time. And I 
remember having very good conversations with her, but I don't 
remember being involved from a political standpoint. Part of that 
may be that I traveled so much, because that really did put a— that  
has, over  the years, I think, been one of my biggest limiters in what 
I'm involved with, because I can't make regular committee 
meetings. It's a very difficult thing. But I'm a little embarrassed to 
say I don't remember turning down an opportunity to get involved 
with that, but I don't remember being involved with that, either.  
Long:  Well, I think the president's task force on gay and lesbian concerns 
happened before you came to work here.  
Pitts:  Would that have been Paul Olum? Because I worked for three 
presidents— 
Long:  It was Brand to begin with.  
Pitts:  Oh, Brand. I worked a lot with Brand. In fact, that was the reason I 
almost went back to Indiana, is he and Christopher Simpson, who 
was one of his chief Vice Presidents for Communication, I think, 
wanted me to come— they'd both went to Indiana University when 
they left here, and they wanted me to come back there as director of 
admission and move into a vice president's role there. I decided to 
stay here, really for the reasons I described earlier. We just didn't 
want to leave.  
Long:  I take it back, it was December, 1989. UO president Myles Brand 
establishes the task force on lesbian and gay concerns.  
Pitts:  Does it say who led it?  
Long:  Yeah. It was co-chaired by Sarah Douglas and Cheyney Ryan.   
Pitts:  Yeah. I remember both of them, and I just don't remember— I was 
not involved. So, if that was '89, I would have still been in a fairly 
junior role. I was on the search committee for the provost when 
John Moseley was hired as provost, and I was on the faculty 
advisory council as a non-teaching faculty with Dave. So I was on 
some of those leadership roles, but not until later. My guess is I just 
was not quite at that level of being involved.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. They were both full professors by then.  
Pitts:  Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I remember that, now that you mention that, I 
do remember them. And in fact, when the church that Tracy and I 
attend, we went to church with Cheyney Ryan. Yeah, he's done a 
lot of good work around.  
Raiskin: What's the church you belong to?  
Pitts:  The United Church of Christ. First Congregational United Church 
of Christ.  
Long:  Where's that?  
Pitts:  On Twenty-fourth  and Harris.  
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Pitts:  Yeah. And when we first started going there, it was a little bit hard 
for me, because it was very much a university church. I would go 
there, and the registrar was there, and some of my staff were there, 
and Frances and Tom Dyke would be there, and John Moseley and  
his wife. And so, it was kind of like going to work. And this was at 
a time when the university was, as it is now, always is, very 
concerned about enrollment. And I was director of admission, and I 
would often leave church, and we would get some lunch, and I 
would come and work the rest of the Sunday afternoon in my 
office.  
 At church, because it was a university church, people would stop 
me on the way out, and say, "Now, how are the numbers looking? 
How are the numbers looking? How are the numbers looking?" 
And I remember one time, Tracy— Tracy would get exasperated 
with this— and one time, I looked outside, and somebody was 
asking me about the numbers, and Tracy had gone and gotten the 
car and pulled it around to the front and opened the door, and she 
was just about ready to come and say, "Give her fifteen  minutes 
and call her at the office. She'll be there the rest of the day. Let her 
go to church." It was Suzanne Clark, David Frank, it was a big 
university church. But it was a church that also was very accepting 
of us, and really has celebrated us for a long time.  
 The first time that we got married was by one of the pastors at that 
church. It was a very small ceremony, not at all legal. Just for us 
and family. And then we had a big party. We invited everybody 
from our office. You know, Lorraine Davis, lots of folks from the 
university that came and celebrated with us. Lorraine— 
Raiskin:  What year was that?   
Pitts:  That was nineteen  years ago now, 1999.  That was nineteen  years 
ago last week. We've gotten married five times, and the last time 
was four years ago on that same day. It was fifteen  years to the day 
from the first time that we got married, and it was actually legal. 
And we got married at our church, by one of our pastors, and had a 
big wedding and lots of people and lots of parties, and it was a 
really wonderful celebration. But yes, so  we tried five times until it 
was finally legal.  
Long:  Did you do the domestic partners down at the courthouse?  
Pitts:  We did the domestic partners, although I was— so the first time we 
got married was at the coast, just our family and us, and then a big 
party later. Then we did the registration with the City of Eugene, 
we were couple number ten. That was a Valentine's Day 
registration, a little over ten years ago, I guess. Then we did the 
domestic— let's see, so that was two— oh, then we did the love 
bandits marriage, when Multnomah County was issuing licenses 
for a very short period of time, we went up and got a license, came 
back, we were going to get married on a Monday night at our 
house by our pastor with some friends from church. But we found 
out on Friday afternoon, from ACLU— 
Raiskin: Dave Fidanque. 
Pitts:  Dave Fidanque, thank you. So Dave Fidanque let us know that 
there was a good likelihood that the attorney general was going 
to— we went to church with Dave and Ann— they let us know that  
the attorney general was likely to stop processing them, so we 
called our church. Another pastor married us. It was her first 
wedding, the first wedding she'd ever done. She had to look it up 
online. We went to the church in the middle of the afternoon, and 
called Jen Bills, and she came in her sweaty soccer shorts with her 
son and another little boy playing out in the yard, and brought 
them, and came and were our witnesses. They never processed the 
paperwork, and then they said it was illegal to do so. So we 
figured, like, we were not divorced, and it was not an annulment, 
but we were illegally married, which made us love bandits. So we 
had a little love bandit party. There were a number of us who'd 
gotten married.  
 And then we did the domestic partnership. That's the one that I 
missed, actually. That one was the year I was working as a 
consultant, and I had an opportunity in New York that I turned 
down because we were going to go with some friends and file the 
paperwork. And Tracy's like, "You can't give up that opportunity. 
It's too good of an opportunity." And it really was. So she said, 
"You go, and just send it. We will get the paperwork notified, and 
send it," and she would go. So I missed our fourth wedding. And 
then our fifth was quite the big celebration. So that was the 
chronology.  
Raiskin:  What do you remember about the anti-gay ballot measures?  
Pitts:  I remember it being very scary, and feeling very personal, that 
people were out to ban my relationship. And that was a big deal. I  
wasn't very politically involved. In fact, thinking back on that for 
this work, I was a little bit embarrassed. We went to house parties, 
we made some donations, but we just were not as politically 
involved. And I'm sorry about that now. I really think back and 
think, I wish I had taken a stronger stand then.  But it was very, 
very scary. I was worried for my job, although I don't know why. 
There was nothing that was ever said or done that made me worry 
about having my job as a lesbian at the university. I never felt like 
that was an impediment to me in any way.  
 In fact, when Tracy and I first started dating, we worked in the 
same office. And so, we had to go through a process of meeting 
with Lorraine Davis and setting up dotted line reporting lines, and 
terms of work and things like that, and telling our staff, which was 
quite an amazing process to go through. But I never had any issues 
with that. It was never a problem.  
 But it was very scary to think that there were people who might 
want to hurt me or my family. And that  was a very difficult thing 
to deal with. I remember being in fear. My ex worked at Lane 
Community College at the time, and this was when we were 
together, and she was very afraid. Much more so than I was. And I 
think that made me doubly worried about coming home and 
having something been done to our dog or to our house or— and I 
remember thinking that it was a lost cause politically. It's funny 
now to think back on that and think how similar some of the things 
are that are going on now. Not exactly in the same way, but in that  
same kind of vein, and how much we thought we were past that 
from twenty  years ago, or twenty-five years ago. But I remember it 
being very scary. I remember talking to other people about it. I 
remember trying to figure out how I could  be supportive without, 
like, standing on the corner with a sign, or going door to door and 
knocking door to door— those were things that I just was not able 
to do— and trying to figure out how I could fight this without 
doing those things.  
Raiskin:  Without endangering yourself.  
Pitts:  Without endangering myself. But also, I come from a family where, 
again, we don't talk about things, but you also don't publicize your 
political beliefs. And that was really drilled into me in some very 
strong ways when I was a kid, that you don't want to be too vocal 
about your politics because everybody has a right to believe what 
they believe, and it could be harmful to be too political. And so, 
that was something that I always tried to balance in my head, 
between wanting to be really radical, and also being afraid of being 
really radical.  
Raiskin:  Were you aware of any gay and lesbian student programming or 
activities or things that were happening on campus?  
Pitts:  Yes. Yes. Some of them I supported or went to. I remember when 
they hired Jackie Balzer as the— we called her at the time, the Big 
Dyke on Campus. I know that was not the official title. Her role at 
the University of Oregon was the first ever in the country. There's a  
great Chronicle of Higher Education  article with, like, a half page size 
picture of Jackie on it from that period of  time, because it was the 
first in the country, student affairs position to deal just with gay 
and lesbian students. I remember thinking that was a great thing to 
have happen and a great opportunity, and with subsequent folks 
who were in those position, with Stephanie Carnahan and with 
others, was supportive.  
 Most of my work, interesting enough, was always with students 
who were off campus.  My job was to get them here, and then turn 
them over to somebody else. And by that time, be looking at the 
students who were two to three years behind them. And so, I was 
very aware of programs and programming, but my focus for 
students was always external. Except for the students that I knew 
through the new student orientation program, or who were tour 
guides with our staff, and those kinds of programs. So there were 
small groups of students that I knew extremely well, but most of 
the people that I worked with were facing outside instead of inside.  
Raiskin:  Were you able ever to use what was happening around 
programming, and maybe even classes, to recruit students to the 
University of Oregon?  
Pitts:  Yes. In fact, you just reminded of— we had one of the very first gay 
fraternities in the country on this campus. And we felt like that was 
a really strong recruiting tactic, and we actually did do some 
recruiting that was targeted— we were able to get— and I don't 
remember where now— we were able to reach out to gay lesbian  
students to say, "This is a good and open place for you to come to 
school." And so we did some direct recruiting. But we also tried to 
build that in as part of our— I had forgotten about this until you 
asked that question— as part of our regular recruitment, because 
we wanted students who wanted to be at a place where gays and 
lesbians were welcomed. We wanted them to know, right?  
 So we put in our tour guide— we put in our tour spiel  for the 
students  to talk about the fact that we had a gay fraternity on 
campus, and that this was a great campus for gay and lesbian 
students. I got a call one  afternoon from an alumnus who— his 
wife and granddaughter had been on the tour— and they talked 
about the gay fraternity, and he called to tell me that that was 
inappropriate and that we needed to take that out. And I was like, 
"I'm sorry, but we're very proud of this fact. It's something that we 
use to recruit. It's part of our strategy." And he went on to tell me 
that this was not— we were going to turn off all the normal 
students, and that we weren't going to get any of the normal 
students, and that he was going to talk to Dave Frohnmayer about 
this. And then he said, "Now listen here, Little Missy, if you think—
"  
 I was so irritated. I was furious when I hung up the phone, and my 
first call was to  Barbara Edwards, who was one of the assistant vice 
presidents who worked with Dave Frohnmayer very closely, and 
was a good friend and a good colleague and a very good support, 
and was my best contact, she and Dave Hubin, in the president's  
office. And I called Barbara, and told her about this, and I was so 
furious until I got to the part where I said, "He said to me, 'listen 
here Little Missy,'" and then I started laughing. And my friends, 
still to this day, tease me. When they want to get at me they call me 
Little Missy. For years on the Planned Parenthood mailing  list I was 
“Little Missy Pitts.”  
 So yes, we did, and it was not without its controversy, but with 
exceptional and unwavering support from the university. There 
was never, ever a bit of pushback.  Not a single word, and that's 
pretty amazing. In fact, I would say in my job, I felt through most 
of my tenure at the university, just unwavering support from the 
university. And through a number of things that were not always 
easy, and were in the press,  from Johnson Hall right up until about 
the time I left, was always unwavering support.  
 I left at a time where there was a lot of turnover in senior positions 
at the university, and it was a group of people who had, really  
shaped who the university was for more than twenty  years. The 
senior leadership was very strong and very long tenure. And then, 
I think, for me at least, I made the right decision to leave at that 
time of change.  
Raiskin:  They have a GSA day now, to recruit students, students coming 
from Gay-Straight Alliances from the high schools.  
Pitts:  Oh, yeah? Great.  
Raiskin:  Was the gender equity dorm going yet when you were here?   
Pitts:  No, no, that was after. I've been gone for almost eleven  years now, 
which is hard to believe, but no, that was  not— 
Raiskin:  There's a lot of recruitment now to show that this is a queer-
friendly place for students.  
Pitts:  Yeah, and like I said, we had started some of that before I left, but 
certainly not, there was not a gender equity dorm at that time. But I 
always felt like the U of O was, though— and I think we had a 
reputation nationally, for being on the cutting edge with what was 
going on on campus for gay and lesbian students, and that was 
something that we always pitched to high school counselors, that 
this was a good place for your gay and lesbian students. Because 
often high school counselors were the ones who knew that a 
student was gay, even if their parents didn't, and were helping 
them look for campuses where they could fit in and feel 
comfortable.  
Raiskin:  That's quite innovative.  
Pitts:  Well, you know, I can't say that it didn't have anything to do with 
my personal life, but I can say it was absolutely embraced by the 
university. And that was at a time when the university was doing, 
like I said, they'd already hired Jackie, there was a lot of 
programming going on. I remember they brought the quilt to 
campus. That was one of the most moving things that I remember, 
is going in and seeing that quilt at the EMU in the ballroom- 
Raiskin:  This is the AIDS quilt?   
Pitts:  The AIDS quilt, yes. And hearing the stories and being there, and 
standing in a group around the quilt, holding hands— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe the quilt?  
Pitts:  As I remember it, it was on the stage, and it was pieces of cloth that 
had— it wasn't sewn together, I don't think, because it was laid out 
in different configurations, but it was pieces of cloth that were 
made into a quilt onto the floor of the EMU, that was made by 
people with AIDS or who had lost people with AIDS in memorium 
of the people that they had lost from AIDS. And that was at a time 
where— oh my gosh, I'm going to get my timing out of sequence 
here— but I think that was at a time where still it was unusual for 
folks to— where having AIDS was really a death sentence.  
 My first cousin lives in New York, and he was  head of the People 
with AIDS Coalition in New York, and he got AIDS in 1981, and he 
is a year older than I am, so he's 58, almost 59, and he's still alive. 
And he said, "We didn't plan to live this long. I don't have any 
savings. I don't have any plans for how to live my life, because we 
all thought we would be dead." And so, he's still an activist. He's in 
a wheelchair and not able to be as active physically as he once was, 
but he's still an activist. I remember thinking about him and being 
there and that  being one of the most somber and important things 
that I had seen in a long time. That was in the EMU. It brought a lot 
of people to campus, and I think it really, again, made the 
University of Oregon stand out as a place that was open and 
accepting.   
Raiskin: So, you're thinking about retiring.  
Pitts:  I am, yes. Yes I am.  
Raiskin:  In a couple of years.  
Pitts:  In a couple of years. Anywhere from tomorrow to two or three 
years from now.  
Raiskin:  And what are your plans?  
Pitts:  Well, my wife has a good job here in Eugene. She no longer works 
for the university. After about two years of working together at the 
university, she said, "I can either take care of you at home, or take 
care of you at the office." So we chose home. She's got a successful 
business in Eugene and will be working for a few years after I 
retire, probably. I'm not sure what will come with retirement. I 
have explored and found an artistic side of myself in the last ten 
years that I didn't know I had. I have become a glass blower, and 
so, I blow glass a couple of times a week. I hang out with a lot of 
twenty-year-old guys who make pipes and— big pipes. They make 
really nice glass that they sell. It's a really different thing, but it's 
something that I hope to pursue a good amount— 
Raiskin:  How did you get started with that?  
Pitts:  They have the glass blowing places up and down the coast. We 
went one time, and I realized that they gave lessons. You could 
blow your own float. And so, I told Tracy that's what I wanted for 
my forty-ninth  birthday. So  we went to the coast. We have a place  
at the coast, and we spend a lot of time over there when we can, 
and we took Jen Bills and her partner— and the four of us are very, 
very close after all these years— and we went over to the coast 
together, and all of  us blew floats. And everybody was like, "Oh, 
that was fun. I have a float now." And I was like, "When can I do 
this again?"  
 So Tracy got me lessons for my birthday, and I'm actually going to 
Pilchuck, which is just north of Seattle, a week from Monday for a 
week long class up there. So I'll live in the woods in a cabin and 
blow glass for a week up there. But it's a consuming hobby, so I'm 
thinking about how to do that and not make it feel like a job when I 
retire, because if you start to sell things, then you've just gone from 
one type of work to another.  
 I don't know. I've never been one to kind of sit around. I like the 
travel that I do. I'd like to work on big projects and exciting things. 
I'm very good at start-ups, which is why the work on the SAT was 
really good for me. And I like that community. I have a national 
network of good friends. Like I said, when Tracy and I finally did 
make our marriage legal five years ago, it was right before we had 
a big meeting in New York on the redesign of the SAT. I remember 
going out to dinner and a colleague from SUNY— State University 
of Buffalo, who is gay, pulled out the pictures of his wedding with 
his husband, and I pulled out the pictures of Tracy and me, and 
passing them around the table, and people going, "Oh, my gosh, 
your wife is so beautiful. How did you marry such a hot woman?"  
I'm like, "Well, what are you saying?" But it was a really wonderful 
thing because it was no different than any— actually, it was 
different than anybody else getting married. It was more celebrated 
that we could get married.  
 Going to national conferences and having people stop me and say, 
"Hey, I saw pictures of your wedding on Facebook," people that I 
didn't know very well that had seen pictures, from friends of 
friends, kind of thing. I will miss that kind of community.  I think 
that's the biggest thing for me right now, is to figure out how to 
keep that kind of community, but it also will let me invest in a 
community here where I've relied on Tracy for the last twenty  years 
to kind of keep me involved, because I'm gone so often. So there 
will be some trade-offs with that, as well. But I feel really blessed. 
And even with the politics that are going on now, I'm optimistic 
enough to believe that those things will pass, and that I'm not going 
to be found in a jail somewhere twenty years from now because I 
did this video and things turned so politically.I think things that we 
never imagined. There are things I can't believe. The Melissa 
Etheridge concert. I can't believe it's been twenty-five years since 
“Yes I Am” was recorded. I can't believe it's been, is it twenty  or 
twenty-five years since Ellen came out on— it must have been 
twenty  years— 
Raiskin:  Twenty-five years. Yeah.  
Pitts:  Twenty-five years for Ellen?   
Raiskin: Yeah.  
Pitts:  Yeah. I remember coming home and bringing Tracy, in the kitchen 
at our house—we just moved into our house—a picture in 
Newsweek  with a lesbian couple on the cover of Newsweek, and 
saying, "Can you even believe this?" And the way that things have 
changed is amazing. And so, I look forward to being part of that 
community in a different way here. I just traveled with my niece 
not long ago. She's in Boston in college, and we went to the Cape 
and went to Provincetown, and I was saying to her there, "It's 
changed so much because there's not as much need for that kind of 
community." I don't think there's that inter-dependence built on 
each other in the same way that there was.  
 I don't wish for the old days, but I do think that there is something 
culturally  that was both stimulating— but it was community 
building and that inter-dependence. You had to rely on each other 
in a different way twenty  years ago than you do now. But I do love 
that our support comes from a wide variety of sources. From our 
friends at  work, from our friends at church, from our friends that— 
we don't play softball anymore, but we still sit around and have a 
drink-with-at-night kind of people.  
Long:  Have you thought about when you become infirm, and you might 
have to think forward to being in a assisted living or retirement 
center?   
Pitts:  You know, we made very conscious decisions not to have children. 
Not because we don't like children. We're very good aunts. We 
spoil our nieces— we have seven nieces and nephews, spoil them 
to death. But we have thought about that, yes. And we laugh that 
we have much younger friends. Some of our very closest friends— 
so Jen and Julie are like ten or fifteen  years younger than I am, but 
then we have a number of friends that are in their early thirties  
now, that we laugh that we keep them around because they're 
going to have to take care of us when we're old. And some of them 
have children, and at least one of them works on campus.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet them?  
Pitts:  Through Jen Bills, hockey players, and then also through 
philanthropic work. One of our closest friends is someone that we 
met when Tracy was president of the United Way Board, and has 
become a really integral part of our family. And so we tease them 
that they are going to have to take care of us when we get old. But 
then we realize that by the time we're really old, they're going to be, 
like, our age, and we're already starting to get a little creaky. So 
they're having kids, but their kids will be too young to take care of 
us then. So we're trying to figure out if there is, like, some late 
twenty-year-olds that we should meet now. They were our 
bridesmaids when we got married the last time. There were five of 
them. They didn't stand up with us or have to wear anything 
particular, you know, they weren't that kind of bridesmaids, but we 
needed help kind of making everything happen. And they were  
terrific. And then afterwards, we all went to— we did it kind of 
backwards— we went to Las Vegas and rented a penthouse in the 
Trump Tower, which was before he became president, and rented a 
penthouse there and had our bridesmaids’  party about two months 
after we got married. It happened to be over Halloween, so we 
dressed up as Girl Scouts. The seven of us dressed up as Girl Scouts 
and went out and spent the night on the strip and down in old 
town, and had a great time, and earned badges by doing interesting 
things. So we call ourselves, still, “The Troop.” And these are the 
people that we're very close to.  
 It's fun to watch them because we have built into our lives 
important things. We've up-sized in a house to make sure that 
we've got room for everybody to be there, because that community 
is really important to us, and to be able to bring the kids and bring 
the dogs.  So we don't know exactly. I think there was a time 
where— I used to be part of a group called the Ice Cream Group. 
The Ice Cream Group was a group of people, a number of people 
were very closeted, but we would all go for ice cream every 
Tuesday night at Prince Puckler's. They actually kicked us out. 
They made us quit going to Prince Puckler's because they didn't 
like having so many lesbians in there. There were probably ten of 
us that would go every Tuesday night and have ice cream. We tried 
to figure out if we were going to— they didn't say it was because 
we were lesbians. They said it was because we were too noisy. But I 
don't believe that that was the case. So we started going to each 
other's homes and having ice cream every Tuesday night for a long  
time. That was a very tight social group. We talked then about 
should we buy land together, and have land where we could all 
have houses, and hire young people to come and live there and 
take care of us when we're in our dotage. It's a good thing that we 
didn't, because once there were some couples that split up— and 
we were the first, my ex and I. I got kicked out of that group. And 
then, there were other couples that split up. And so, that group— I 
don't even know if they meet— but I got kicked out so I don't  
know— but it was a good thing that we didn't invest in land 
together.  
 But I think there's got to be something where we would make some 
kind of plans. And we have friends at church. We have a Dinners 
for Eight group that we've had dinner with once a month for 
twenty  years. Ralph Barnhard, who was a chemistry faculty 
member at the university and his wife, Lavern, are part of that. 
We're down to five of us now. The three have passed. And Tracy 
and I are the youngest, by far, in that group. But we've watched  
them, and it's made us stop and think about what we're going to 
do.  
 We are really blessed, because we'll have the financial resources, I 
think, to make sure that we find somebody to help take care of us 
without kids. I don't worry about that too much, because we've 
watched what happens to other people who have children, and 
they've had to make those same kind of choices. Right? And we 
have, again, strong, strong community here. So Jen's son, who used  
to be our bat boy, and who we called Zippy the Pinhead  until he 
was born, is now a police officer in Seattle, and counts us among 
his village, and counts us as part of the family. So I know that, if 
there are things that we need, those are kids that we can call on that 
we've been part of their growing up. And  that's a really good thing. 
It's a real blessing.  
Raiskin:  Is there anything that we have neglected to ask you about your 
time at the university or in Eugene?  
Pitts:  There is one story I want to tell. When Tracy and I first started 
dating, we worked together, and that was not okay with me. It was 
one of those things where we both had feelings. Neither one of us 
were going to say anything. It looked like I might leave town to 
take this job in Indiana. So she got bold and said, "I'd rather tell you 
now, than tell you on the tarmac as your plane is flying away." So 
we had to make a decision, just in, like, in a one or two-week 
period, that we were either going to try to have a relationship or 
not. This was not something that we could try at and fail. Because 
of the politics on campus, not gay lesbian politics, but because of 
the politics of power. And there were— I don't remember if there 
was a scandal at the time—but there  were issues about dating 
students, or dating people that you worked with. And it was being 
worked out in the faculty senate. And so I was like, "One of us is 
likely to have to resign. But if we're going to try this, we've got to 
first make this decision in a two-week period that we're going to try  
this. And then, if we do, we need to make sure that we know that 
one of us may have to leave in order to give this a try."  
 So we went to my boss. We had a counselor dinner one night in 
Salem that Tracy and I were hosting for high school counselors 
from the Salem area, and called my boss on the way home and said, 
"We need to come over and talk to you." And so, we went to his 
house and, actually his wife was an employment lawyer for the 
state at the time. She wasn't home when we first got there. So we 
went in, and we told Jim that we were going to start dating, and we 
weren't sure what that meant for our work, but that we hoped that 
we could continue to work together. I was terrified. And he said, 
well, he thought it might be a challenge, but he would work with 
us and we'd figure out what we do. So his wife came home and 
said, "Oh, you guys are worried about nothing. This is not a big 
deal." But he set up a meeting for us with Lorraine Davis. About a 
week after that  we had to go and sit down and tell Lorraine. It was 
embarrassing. The whole thing was embarrassing to me, because I 
liked to keep my work and my relationships separately, and I very 
much am— I value the fact that I work really hard to make ethical 
decisions and to be really above board and very good at what I do. 
So I was worried that this was just like the thing that I could never 
have imagined doing. So we went to meet with Lorraine. Lorraine 
had also been a personal friend of mine and my ex's for quite a 
while— 
Raiskin:  And what was her position?   
Pitts:  What was her position? She was fairly new into the vice— She was 
a vice provost for faculty something— 
Raiskin:  Academic Affairs.  
Pitts:  Academic Affairs, exactly. And so, because of where we reported, 
we had to go and talk with her, although I was not in a true faculty 
position. So, we went in and told Lorraine, and Lorraine is like, 
asked us a few questions, and then she said, "Okay, here's what 
we're going to do. Tracy can continue to work. You guys can  
continue to work together on a day-to-day basis. For things that 
need to get done around the office, you will continue to be Tracy's 
supervisor. But we'll draw a dotted line to Jim for anything that 
might be a conflict of interest. Salary, time off, travel, where's she 
going to travel, if people think that you're giving her the good 
travel territories, and so that's how we'll resolve it." And I thought, 
"This took, like, ten minutes."  
 And I was like, I said, "Well, this is good." I said, "Is this the first 
time you've ever had to do this?" And she said, "Oh, heavens no. 
Half the deans are married to people that they—" that's how people 
meet each other, right? They're teaching in the same discipline. 
They marry people in the same discipline. And I said, "Are we the 
first same-sex couple that you've had to do this with?" And she's 
like, "Oh, heavens no."  
 I was both relieved and happy, and felt very, first of all, very 
supported by the university, because it was no big deal. But also, it  
was odd having to have a university-approved relationship, but it 
was, I thought, a really great statement on how they valued us, but 
also the value that they put on relationships and work, and how 
those things needed to work together. So that was really good.  
 But then we had to tell our staffs. It was a staff, at the time, of about 
fifty. Tracy was in a supervisory role in the office. So we brought all 
of our staff in. First we told my assistant, but we brought them all 
in. Our biggest concern was not to have gossip, right?  We wanted 
to be frank and upfront, tell people, to try to make it not a big deal. 
Which meant we had to bring people in in groups of three to eight. 
We brought them in in work groups. So we brought all the 
evaluators in. We brought the people who answered  the phone and 
did reception in. We brought, all in groups, and tell them. We 
would tell them we were dating, that we were concerned that this 
not have an impact on the office. What to do if I was being mean to 
Tracy, what to do if I was being gratuitous to Tracy. How to deal 
with it. What we expected, what they expected from us, answered 
any questions we could, and then said, "Please don't say anything 
to anyone until 3:00, because we'll have everybody told by 3:00 in 
the afternoon." And I'll be darned, nobody said a word.  
 We got all of the groups through, and in the afternoon, once people 
could talk, it started to get out to some of the offices— the 
Registrar's Office, the Financial Aid Office, all on the same floor, 
with work that overlapped quite heavily. And people would come 
and tell us, "Yeah, people came up and said, 'Hey, have you heard  
about Martha and Tracy?"" And they're like, "Yes, they told us. 
They told us what to do, and so it's not a big deal." And so we were 
successful in stopping the gossip. Not all the repercussions. It was 
hard for some people. But we got an unusual amount of support 
and a really heartening amount of support from our staff, who 
then, later— when we were trying to hire a new person in another 
position within the office of  leadership position, and somebody 
brought it up in an interview when I was not in the room, our staff 
said, "You can't hire this woman." And I said, "Why not? She's 
probably our top candidate?" And they said, "Because she will not 
be loyal to you. She will not be good for the office. She'll be 
divisive." And I said, "What do you mean?" And they told me, "She 
tried to get us to start gossiping about you and Tracy and what it 
was like to work with you, and we don't want to work with 
somebody who brings that."  
 So it was— I get goose bumps thinking about it now, because it was 
the worst day I think I ever had professionally, because there was 
so much self-disclosure in a way that just was not comfortable for 
me. But it was also, I think, one of the best things that I ever did, 
and we got a lot of support from some really good people who 
stood behind us and had our back from there on out. So we worked 
together for about two more years, and then Tracy decided it was 
time to leave. I missed working with her a lot. But it was never an 
issue of our ability to work together, or our staff, because they 
always made it very easy.   
Raiskin:  Good thing it worked out.  
Pitts:  It is. Yes, it is. I don't know where I would have gone and found a 
job, but it worked out very well. It worked out very well.  
Raiskin:  We ask a lot people we're interviewing if you can imagine this 
interview being viewed by a young person, maybe somebody who 
will be living with you in the future— 
Pitts:  Say somebody taking care of us.  
Raiskin:  What advice or worldly knowledge or wisdom would you give 
them? Somebody watching this now or in twenty, thirty  years.  
Pitts:  I think that being who you are is always the best choice, and that, if 
you are true to yourself, and true to your friends, and true to who 
you are, and give people the benefit of the doubt, that they will 
surprise you, and in a really positive way. There's often a concern 
that people don't want you to succeed, or that people will use 
things against you. I have found over the years that, certainly, there 
are instances where that's happened, but nine times out of ten, or 
probably ninety-five times out of 100, people are surprisingly 
generous, and that they want other people to be happy, and they 
want good things for other people.  
 It's hard to say, having kind of reminded myself about what 
happened with the OCA all of those years ago, but in the end, 
Measure 9 didn't pass, and we're not in the situation we are now 
because of, necessarily, all the goodness of people's hearts. Some of   
it was legal, some of it was judicial decisions, but that we're in a 
much better place. And even with Trump, even with all the vitriol, 
it's still, we're in a better place than we were twenty  years ago. I 
don't know if you can always count on always being  better in all 
the ways, but that in general, people want you to succeed. And so, 
be who you are, and don't let fear keep you from being true to 
yourself and from saying and living your truth, because there's 
some really great things to experience if you do.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Long:  Thank you.  
Pitts:  Glad to do it. Thank you for the opportunity. Did I leave anything 
out?  
Raiskin:  No. 
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  