 
Long:  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon’s  Special Collections and University 
Archives. This is an oral history interview with Laura  Stockford  on 
Wednesday, August 28, 2019  taking place in the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ recording studio in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Laura, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project, and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Stockford: Yes.  
Long:  Thank you. Why don't we start with a basic question. Can you 
please tell us when and where you were born, where you grew up 
and something about your early background?  
Stockford: Sure. I was born in Tampa, Florida, December 15, 1957 in St. 
Joseph’s Hospital. I was the first of four children born to my 
mother, Joyce Louise Newell Kasanokwis  Stockford, and my father, 
Charles James Stockford. I went to Catholic School for eight years, 
my first eight years. I'm sure that had an influence on me. But in 
ninth grade, we didn't have enough money for me to go to Catholic 
high school, so I moved to public school. I would say that my 
childhood was full of reading and books, and playing outdoors. I  
had good pals, one of whom just died last November, who I stayed 
in touch with all my life, Patti Jo. And my other dear friend, Ray 
Eydman, is still my dear friend, and he still lives there, in Tampa. 
We've been friends fifty-eight years. And I really value 
relationships. I'm a therapist. It naturally emerged. What else might 
be important?  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament as a child?   
Stockford: When I wasn't helping my mother, or parents with the younger 
children, I read, and I played. I was mild. My mother called me 
something like “Susie Sunshine,” or some kind of eternal optimist. 
“Sally Sunshine,” that was it, and told me that I had incredible  
resiliency, which stuck with me.  There was some abuse in my  
childhood. My parents didn't know how to raise children in terms 
of getting them to do what they needed them to do. So, mostly my 
father was physically disciplining in a more and more intense way. 
He eventually became an alcoholic. As the early child though, I got 
to know him before he was an alcoholic. We played physically a lot. 
I helped him repair the lawn mower. When we went camping, he 
and I put the tent up, and he explained the parts of a car to me, 
which I really liked because I was with him, and I was given 
responsibility. There was real joyfulness in the camping part. Our 
family went camping a lot.  
Raiskin:  In high school did you have particular academic interests?   
Stockford: Academic interests in high school. I was talented and gifted, but 
that wasn't very focused, so I just had fun. And I was part of the 
human relations committee, the school yearbook, and the school 
newspaper. So, I leaned into journalism, they called it in those days. 
Hung out with nerds who competed in trivia contests. Made civil 
rights statements pretty early on; intentionally dated black men, 
and made a show of it in my high school time. Both so they knew 
they were wonderful, and lovable, and to show the world they 
were. There was really— this is who I am, essentially, is someone 
who believes in the worth, and value of every human, regardless of 
who they are. It still reflects who I am today, that high school time.  
Raiskin:  Now what were those relationships like for you, personally, 
sexually, emotionally?    
Stockford: My mom left my dad after domestic violence, when I was about 
fifteen  [sixteen]. That was probably the hard time in my life, in my 
bringing up time. Right, keep going.   
Raiskin:  About your relationships with  the boys in high school.   
Stockford: The boys in high school, oh well. I intentionally chose African-
American young men on the football team to be with and flirt with 
in public, and be friends with. I had friends in the drama club, and I 
participated in the debate, and speech league. So, I like to talk 
about those positions, which I held, which include women's lib, in 
the '70s.  I have never been someone to shave my legs. In fact, when 
I was about fourteen, the neighbor lady told me I needed to come 
back into her back restroom, and she sat on me and shaved my 
legs. She said, "Now isn't that better?" And I wasn't really old 
enough to understand that I could have said no. But I mean, this 
about forced sexuality in a sense.  
So what else? I had a little early substance abuse. Of note, two of 
my early boyfriends turned out to be gay men. When I look back, I 
think some things are interesting like that. I was also accused of 
being a lesbian when I was fifteen  or sixteen, in the Burger King. 
And I wasn't aware that I was leaning in that way at all, and I just 
said, "Well no, I am not." But when I look back on that, it was so 
interesting.  
Raiskin:  Who thought that you were?   
Stockford: Nobody I knew very well.   
Raiskin:  So it was just based on how you looked?   
Stockford: Kid in school, based on how I looked. I had long hair, but 
whatever. I don't know how they got there.   
Raiskin:  And what did you understand, what did you know about lesbians? 
What did you learn growing up? What access did you have to 
knowledge about lesbians?   
Stockford: Nothing. No access, until I went to college. That's not true, my— 
No. So, it was moving to Eugene, also. But my first really exposure 
to lesbianism as something other than something over there, that 
the Catholics told you was very bad, wasn't until I went to college, 
when I was eighteen or nineteen. It just wasn't even in my 
awareness.  
Raiskin:  Did that Catholic, early education slow you down, or make you 
uncomfortable, or make you worry?   
Stockford: At what point?   
Raiskin:  When you came out.  
Stockford: When I came out?   
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Stockford: No, I didn't come out until I was twenty-six. I guess we'll get to 
that. So, I wasn't out. My first sort of opening to the possibility— 
my mother moved out. My father remarried at nineteen. And then I 
moved in with my “boyfriend,” a gay man, with a lover named  
Miguel, who I didn't really understand was his lover, at the time. 
So, I had a couple of AIDS scares. I didn't get AIDS. But he did 
eventually. Uh-oh, waterworks  [tears up]. Yeah. We didn't last 
because he did come out.  
So then, my grandparents found out— I'm Native American on my 
mom's side. Also, suppressed by my white, Irish, working class, 
Catholic father. I didn't know I still had feelings left about this. 
Right. My grandparents on my mother's side, who are Native, tell 
me about who I am, who my mom is. It felt like the first coming out 
of the closet, like, "Oh. Well, that explains a lot." Because I also got 
racial name-calling as a child. But I didn't understand why I got 
racial name-calling. I just went along with it. And as a child, I 
definitely looked like some kind of ethnicity that other people 
couldn't figure out. So, I got different kinds of name-callings.  My 
grandparents then found the Maine Indian Scholarship grant for 
me at the Penobscot  [this was a scholarship from the State of Maine 
for all of the native people from the state].  My grandfather was part 
Penobscot. So, I left Florida to then move to Orono, Maine. I moved 
to the reservation, and in with my grandparents. It was a seminal 
and important point in my life, as I came to who I was in a racial 
way, or in an ethnic identity way. I was very pleased. My 
grandfather  was a professor of anthropology. Who was one of the 
first Native Americans to go to the University of Pennsylvania 
without ever having attended real school. He got a Ph.D., and he 
taught. His contribution was Indian Contributions to White 
Civilization. That was the thesis paper. And I have a whole book I  
brought that my mom wrote about him, and that piece of my 
history, which I realize isn't lesbian history, but it was formulating, 
and important to me. So, I moved with my grandparents, and then 
I was exposed to more things, a lot more things at the University of 
Maine. As a freshmen, I met a lot of people, and I saw, I could see 
who lesbians were. Because they had short hair, flannel shirts, and 
hiking boots. From my perspective, I got that. But I went to early 
women's center meetings in college, and understood that I was a 
feminist, at least. And then the attraction began, the interest began 
at that point, I would say. I didn't come out yet, but I did have a 
brief sexual experiment with a married couple, who are my dear 
friends still to this day. They live in Salem. You know, I didn't like 
having the guy in the mix. Though he's still a very dear person. 
And they're both feminists, strong, feminist people. They raised a 
wonderful son, who died of HIV, and sadly, a few years ago. I'm 
old enough that people have died. Wow. As I'm reflecting on times 
when I'm in my twenties and thirties. I know, it's different. Well, 
anyway.  
Long: What year did you go to college at the University of Maine?   
Stockford: Yes, 1977.   
Long: Okay. Did you live on campus?   
Stockford:  Yes. After I lived with my grandparents for three months. I was 
hitchhiking nine miles to campus, and in the snow. It was too hard. 
Because I lived on a reservation, so I had to get lucky, and get  
across a bridge on the Penobscot River. Because the Penobscot 
Reservation is an island, and then get to Old Town, and then get 
lucky again, and get a ride to the U. Which, when you're nineteen, 
doesn't seem hard. But it got cold. So, I moved on campus and 
lived in dorms, and had a busy campus life. I got a degree in 
business marketing, because I felt like I needed a way to support 
myself. Always a feminist. Always very determined to be self-
supporting, a self-made person, someone who could accomplish 
something. That was just my first idea, "Okay, well let's try that. It's 
kind of fun." So, I have this degree in business, which, oh well. I 
graduated from college December of 1981. I have a four-year  
degree in business marketing, from the University of Maine. It was 
a wonderful experience, for the most part. I was active in the 
Native American Club. I was active in the women's center. I 
brought a newspaper clipping. I was on the newspaper staff, 
volunteer position. I was part of the feminist movement, in ways, 
like not wearing a bra, and wearing a flannel shirt, and saying, "I 
can do whatever I want to do." And, "I can do the same thing a man 
can do." I felt strongly that I could be whoever I wanted to be, if I 
could figure out how to support myself. Then we got the next 
chapter because I left Maine when  I graduated in December of '81.  
And my grandfather had died, so my strong connection to the 
reservation wasn't there. I couldn't find a job. I moved back to 
Florida, and by this time my mom lived in Sarasota. I got a business 
job in Sarasota, Florida. Lived with my mom for a few months and 
then got my own place. Tried cocaine for a few months. That was  
weird. Just— you know, I'm this try-a-new-thing experimental 
person, which will show up here in a minute. But I wasn't really 
very happy in Florida, after living in Maine for so long. So, my best 
friend in high school, Patti  Jo McGill, that's who died last year. She 
came to Florida with her husband and her baby and she said, "You 
have to move to Eugene." I'm like, "Okay, well, I'm not too happy 
here." I was sexually harassed on my job there. I didn't connect the 
dots. This guy felt like he could just slide his hand up the back of 
my leg to my ass, and that was fine, because he was my manager. 
Right. And I was so naïve. When I left that job after eight months, 
to move to Oregon, I filed worker's comp, and I wrote the story up 
and they went, "Oh, well, you can have unemployment." And, 
"This was sexual harassment." I was in Oregon, by then, with no 
resources. So I didn't pursue it anymore. And then just say, "Thank 
you for my unemployment compensation." And to have that 
dawning, "Oh, right." And it breaks loose when I move to Eugene 
in 1982.   
Raiskin:  Why did they suggest Eugene?   
Stockford:  Well— My best friend's family had moved to Eugene. Tampa, 
Florida, where I was born, has an Air Force base, MacDill, where 
Patti  Jo, my pal, she'll come in the story later on too, and that we 
bagged groceries on base, for our summer job. We dated airmen in 
high school, because they had big, exciting cars, and they let us 
drink alcohol. She and I were bff's, and she said—and I trusted 
her—"You need to come to Eugene because I think you'll really like  
it." And she wasn't very specific. She just said, "It's a beautiful 
place, and maybe— and it was good, because I stopped using 
cocaine when I moved to Eugene. I took a Trailways Bus. I put my 
bicycle in a box, and my suitcase, and it took eight days. I had $200. 
Stopped and visited a college friend in Illinois. Broke my leg in 
Denver, running to get some food that wasn't from a bus stop. And 
this sweet older woman named Mrs. Goode, I'm not kidding you, 
said, "Your leg looks really swollen, dear." I said, "I know, but I'm 
moving to Eugene on a bus. I don't know what to do. I have no 
insurance." We got off  in this very tiny town in Colorado. Her son 
picked us up, and they took me to the emergency room, and stayed 
with me. The doctor pro-bono'd a walking boot, and gave me the X-
ray. We went to her little apartment, and she made hot dogs for 
dinner. She put me back on the bus in the morning. That was just a 
remarkable moment of kindness I'll never forget  [tears up]. And I 
was on my journey again. I got here, and my friend's parents lived 
in Eugene at 44th and Pearl. They let me stay in their den for a few 
months, and then I moved out with my friend Patti  Jo and her 
husband, where I got my first cat. That's when it was on, yeah.  
Raiskin:  What did Eugene look like to you when you first came here?   
Stockford:  Oh, my gosh. That's such a great question. The Trailways Bus 
comes over the mountains from the eastern Oregon desert, and 
rolls down the McKenzie River, and I think, "Oh, my God. I've 
moved to the Garden of Eden." I literally thought that. It was so 
lush. The McKenzie River is just the most joyous place in the  
universe, because it was like, "La-la." And we stopped at the shop, 
and we had pie. I'm sure it was Mom's Pies. I walked around 
marveling at what I had come to. Very happy. Very happy I moved 
here. It really felt amazing to move here. And for the first few 
years, when I would write home, and we wrote letters in those 
days. I would say, "You cannot believe what you can walk up to a 
tree and eat. You can just have an apple, or some berries. You can 
go pick things, and eat them." It just fucking blew me away, how 
amazing the Willamette Valley was in its aliveness. So that was 
very awesome, and then yeah. It was good.  
Raiskin:  Did you connect with the women's community here? Or the  lesbian 
community when you first came?   
Stockford:  The very first exposure was when I moved in with my friend's 
parents and my friend. Her mom was at the University of Oregon, 
as a student. Boy, she was taking sociology of women, and her 
assignment was to get to know lesbians. She would come home and 
say, "I met lesbians. You should hear about them." That was my 
opening up, was a women's studies class in 19— I mean she had 
gone to Women's Studies in 1983, and she was an older person. She 
would have been, wait, let me think, gosh, she would have only 
been in her fifties. She was great.  She was humorous and open in 
sharing her stories of how fun it was.   
Raiskin:  And where was she meeting the lesbians?   
Stockford:  In women's studies class.   
Raiskin:  Oh, in classes.  
Stockford:  Yeah, that was awesome.   
Raiskin:  So how did you connect with lesbians in Eugene?   
Stockford:  I moved from that 44th and Pearl. Then I lived across from the glue 
factory in Springfield, in this tiny duplex with Patti  Jo and our cats, 
and her husband, and baby. I finally got out on my own, moved in 
with a graduate student at 20th and Lincoln. The house is still there. 
I go and look. Had my last sex with a man. I'm not saying who. But 
he was a native man. And I had a yearn that if I ever procreated in 
my life, it would be with a native man, because I really felt like 
assimilation was wrong. If I was going to go through all that with a 
pregnancy, that baby was going to be native. But I didn't get 
pregnant, so that was good.  But then I started joining groups, like 
Eugene Direct Action, and started a little local, I don't know, what 
did we use to make newsletters? Like a mimeograph machine or 
something?  
Long: Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Stockford:  “The Nuclear News Bureau,” by Laura Stockford. Eventually I was 
part of Women's Press  the next year, as just a contributor, and going  
to the meetings. The feminism bloomed into meeting more lesbian 
people. That's how it happened.  Eugene Direct Action was this 
very dynamic group of thirteen activists, many of whom I still 
know, who are alive. Betsy Reeves, Thyme Siegel. Betsy was part of 
the original Hoedads group. The lesbian Hoedads group. Thyme  
was a lesbian writer. They owned property on River Road, on 
Elkay Street, which we called Elkay Island. When I was in Eugene 
Direct Action, we started doing these sit-ins, and protests. I became 
an activist, and met lesbians, and liked them. My friend, Mindy 
Brady, who's still a teacher at 4J, right now, was part of that group. 
I can remember— Wait, I'm getting a little ahead of it. So, I became 
an activist, and I started meeting activists in other areas. That's 
where I met my first lover, Sky. I have a picture of her with me. Sky 
was quite a bit older than me, which at the time I didn't realize 
might have been a problem. I was twenty-six, and Sky was in her 
early forties, at least, maybe forty-five. And Sky was part of the 
southern Oregon women's community. That is the big opening. I 
have many stories about that. Which I know you know about to 
some degree. So, I meet Sky. We go on the Hanford Nuclear Action 
Peace March, sixty  miles, sleeping on church floors. I was so 
enamored with her. I just thought, She's so strong, and she built her 
own cabin.  And I just really admired who she was. She was who 
she was. I asked her about being a lesbian, and she was delightful.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what you asked her?   
Stockford:  What did I ask her? I think I just said, "So you're a lesbian?" And 
she just laughed, and goes, "Yeah." And I go, "Oh, well, I want to 
know about it." I mean, I don't know what I asked her. I just 
wanted to know about it. She and Dawn, who were part of the 
southern Oregon group, had come up to network with the Eugene 
group, and our activist household. By now I had moved in with  
Thyme and Betsy onto Elkay Island, which is a house with a 
separately— an apartment above a garage, a back cabin, and a 
wood-fired sauna with a cold bathtub. And the hub of many great 
women's events, I'll say. It had a fire circle. And I moved into that 
thinking I was probably straight. We had a joke when I first moved 
in, what do a Jew, a  Pagan and a Christian, who are straight, 
bisexual, and gay have in common? Elkay Island! But it wasn't a 
joke because I came out there. I came to who I was at Elkay Island. 
That was so safe. It was like a cocoon of coming out, that Thyme 
and Betsy were there. And so was Pamlin Pegg, who's still my dear 
friend, but lives in Portland now. And Sandra Pastorious, part of 
the southern Oregon women's land community, Laughing Giraffe 
Horoscope. I brought my horoscope chart she did back then.   
Long: How do you spell Elkay?   
Stockford:  E-L-K-A-Y. Elkay Drive.   
Long: Okay.   
Stockford:  It's off of River Road.   
Long: Off of River Road, okay.   
Stockford:  I don't remember the house number, but it's there. I don't know 
who owns it anymore, of course. Thyme and Betsy owned  the land. 
You know, that's one of those radical things, when women started 
owning land. So, also part of the attraction to the household. There 
was this environment. People walked around naked, because we  
had full proximity fencing, and a sauna, and it's Oregon, it's cold. 
You get hot in the sun, you walk around naked. I was exposed to 
women loving women in a beautiful way there. That made it easy 
to come out with Sky. I just got in bed with her when she was 
taking a nap, and started kissing her on the neck, and I had no idea 
what I was doing. That's the coming out right there. The moment. 
It's a very happy memory. I don't know where to go from here. I 
feel really, kind of worked up. Heart rate racing.  
Raiskin:  Your coming out letter, was that from around this time, or later?   
Stockford:  I wrote a story about it during the time. I journaled about it during 
1984, and I kept the journal.   
Raiskin:  Did you—  
Stockford:  It was so freeing. Coming out just set me free. I came out to my 
family right away. That night— well, after Sky went back to 
Ashland— I almost ran to Mindy's house, I mean two miles, and 
woke her up in the middle of the night. I said, "Mindy wake up." 
And she's like, "What? I'm drunk." And I'm like, "Mindy, I'm gay." 
And she's like, "Okay, whatever." And I'm like, "Can I sleep with 
you?" And she's like, "Just get in here and sleep." And we just went 
to sleep. Mindy has come out since then. I don't know— I worry 
about, we should wait ten years. Because I don't want to out 
Mindy, as a teacher. That doesn't seem fair to her. Because Mindy 
wasn't out yet either. Mindy and I weren't lovers, but were just 
friends, and have stayed friends for a long time. It was just so  
exciting to tell someone who would appreciate it. Then I called my 
mom and I'm like, "Mom, I'm bisexual." That was how I came out 
though, because that felt safe. And I'm like, "Tell everyone I'm 
bisexual." Like, "I love everybody. Don't get confused. I just love 
everybody." Which was how people came out as a strategy. It took 
me about maybe  another year to go like, "Well, pretty sure I'm just 
a lesbian now." Like, "That's what's rolling out." I'm on my second 
lover, and that seems to be what's happening for me right now, and 
I'm just going to go with it.  
Raiskin:  How did your mother respond?   
Stockford:  Typically. It's probably just a phase. She wasn't unkind, or 
rejecting. But she was diminishing so as not to bring it in too fast. 
My mother's become my greatest supporter, just so you know. 
She's a wonderful person, just took her a while to get adjusted. 
Even my father, who had many problems, came to terms with it.  
Raiskin:  So you're part of this community. Can you describe a typical day 
that you— 
Stockford:  Back then, before I worked for the— I was hired by US West Phone 
Company late in '84. But before that I only worked part-time. We 
had this fire circle. And little cans of beer that said, “No Name 
Beer.” That was hilarious. I mean, and people would go in and out 
of Elkay Island. It was like this welcoming place. We would make 
food together, sing, protest, process, have political protest  
meetings, sauna. It was such a time of discovery. It was such a time 
of discovery for me. Yep.   
Raiskin:  What were the attitudes around sexuality at Elkay Island?   
Stockford:  [Chuckles] A real openness, and acceptance of whoever and 
whatever. One of the women on Elkay Island that was an owner, 
identified as a bisexual. We had these long conversations like, "Well 
what does that mean?" Well, her partnerships were  all with 
women, but she kind of liked to have sex with men sometimes. But 
that's all it meant. Men weren't meaningful in that patriarchal way. 
They were just fun to have sex with sometimes. That was her idea 
of bisexuality. And then there was one woman who was like, "No 
men, never, ever." And then there was me, coming from straight to 
bisexual, to lesbian during that time. So, I would say there was a 
wide acceptance. Other women came out on Elkay Island, and 
other women came out with Sky. I would like to talk about that.  
 Sky, whose real name is Doris, which she didn't want anyone to 
know. But I think she has Alzheimer's, or isn't alive anymore. So as 
I last heard— LaRosa knows her. And everybody knows LaRosa, 
right? She moved to Port Townsend, and I don't  have contact, but I 
understand she doesn't remember. Because she's quite a bit older 
than me. If I'm sixty-one now, she would be in her eighties, if she's 
alive. So, I doubt it. But at the time, she was in her forties. She was 
part of that vibrant, southern Oregon women's community. I would 
take the bus to Medford, and Sky would pick me up. And we were 
in the throes of early sexuality, so we had all this wonderful sex.  
And then we'd go to Tee Corinne's house. Right. I'm going to tell 
you some really personal stories about this. The first party at Tee 
Corinne's house, there were thirty  women. I'm sitting next to Sky 
on the sofa, and I said, "Sky, is everyone in here a lesbian?" And she 
just laughed until she couldn't talk, and said, "Yes, Laura. 
Everybody in  here is a lesbian." I just thought I had come to this 
place of amazing, amazing possibility. Because Tee Corinne's 
bedroom had one wall of breasts, individual black and white 
photos of breasts covered one whole wall of her bedroom. I was 
beside myself, literally beside myself. Yeah.  
Long: What year was this?   
Stockford:  Probably '84 or five.   
Long: So was this when Tee Corinne had her house in Sunny Valley?   
Stockford:  Yes. 
Long: Okay.   
Stockford:  And Lee Lynch lived there some of the time.   
Long: Yes.  
Stockford:  And I joined the Southern Oregon Women's Writers, and Choral 
Society, and Gourmet Eating Society. The thing kind of  went on for 
a while. Oh, I put my hands up, sorry  [gestures]. I got to be part of 
this seminal  group of women who wrote books and  published 
poetry, and sang songs, and really made strong statements about  
being lesbians. I just think that was amazing. You know, Hawk 
Madrone, a woman who didn't speak much, but could talk with the 
animals, so to speak, who had such a spiritual, and deep 
connection. Her partner, they were amazing, what they did. Their 
theater productions, and their publications. They still are doing the 
calendar. What is the calendar called?   
Long: The We'Moon calendar.   
Stockford:  The We'Moon calendar, which I still buy  every year. Because 
Sequoia Water Woman, who used to be Sequoia somebody else, 
who was in the phone company when I worked there, is still on the 
We'Moon staff. I mean the roots are amazing from back then.   
Long: And was it Bethroot Gwynn— 
Stockford:  Bethroot. 
Long: —at that time was Madrone's partner?   
Stockford:  Was, at the time.   
Long: At the time, yeah.   
Stockford:  Yes.  
Long: Can you spend some time talking about Tee Corinne, and your 
impression of her, what she was like?   
Stockford:  Okay. I was really, pretty fascinated with Tee Corinne, because of 
her sense of accomplishment as a lesbian. That she had written  
books. That she held the ear of lesbian writers whose books I read. I 
read all of Lee Lynch's books, and knew Lee Lynch at the same 
time. That was pretty exciting stuff, right? And that she had the 
photos, the erotic reverse imagery photos, the one in the 
wheelchair— 
Long: The solarized photographs.   
Stockford:  I just adored what she was doing with lesbian archive and history. 
So just being in her  company, I could hardly talk. I mean, I was this 
person who just came out. So, I didn't really form a close 
relationship with her. I just stood around and went, "Wow." You 
can't say I had full engagement, because I was so wowed. Even 
though, I probably did attend about fifteen or twenty Southern 
Oregon Women's Writers— 
Long: Group.   
Stockford:  The creativity in that group. I would leave with my heart so full. I 
could be an out lesbian. I got hired by the phone company about 
this point. In the phone company, I got pretty active with EAGLE, 
Employee Association of Gay and Lesbian Employees, and a Native 
American employee group. I had a death threat. I was out in the 
phone company, a conservative place.   
Raiskin:  Death threat, how did that— 
Stockford:  Someone left a note on my desk at work that I should die. A death 
threat.   
Long: And that was in Eugene?   
Stockford:  Yes.  
Long: Okay.  
Stockford:  So that was about '86, when I got the death threat. My gosh. My 
heart's just pounding. I had forgotten about that. I didn't seem to 
care. But looking back— Union, I was active in Communications 
Workers of America, as a local steward. Eventually, as the 
education chair, and outspoken there also. An out lesbian. At the 
phone company— I realize I've digressed. But we'll come back to 
the southern Oregon women, because I never left them for several 
years. That was integral to me. It fed me, spiritually, and it fed my 
courage and fortitude to come from that place. I mean, yeah. I mean 
I can remember— Okay, I am digressing, so sorry this isn't flowing. 
But I can remember driving up for a meeting, and we drove onto 
women's land, what land was that? That was in Grants Pass. One of 
the famous lands.  
Long: WomanShare?   
Stockford:  Yes! Yes. Right, Billie.   
Long: Billie Miracle?   
Stockford:  Yes! Well, she was probably the most gorgeous lesbian on earth at 
that time. She just rips off her clothes, and Sky rips off her clothes, 
and they embrace, and I think, Oh my God. I just died and went to 
lesbian heaven.  It was crazy, those times of openly embracing, and  
liberating ourselves. Yeah. And art, and music, and ritual, and 
ritual, like when we went to Roseburg women's land, I went to 
several Land's End— There's two land groups in Roseburg, 
Hannah Blue Heron was part of— 
Long: Rainbow's End?   
Stockford:  Yes, Rainbow's End.   
Long: And then Rainbow's Other End.   
Stockford:  Oh yes, that's right. And so I knew Hannah Blue Heron, who was a 
lesbian nun, part of the book. We did a dream circle there under the 
stars, where we slept with our heads to the fire, and tried to dream 
a dream together. I still do dream work. We had— so precious, 
really. We set wands on one woman's land, so she would feel safe. 
We followed this walking around and setting of wands and just 
asking the universe to take of these women on their land. Things 
like that, that were, yeah.  
Raiskin:  I wonder what you felt about some of the use of native ritual in 
these environments.   
Stockford:  Wow, good question. Well, after I found my voice— So you know 
that first couple years, I was just enthralled. I really wasn't 
productive yet. But once I found my voice, I spoke to it. And you 
know who raised my consciousness the most about that is Winona 
LaDuke, who taught here. She had a chair endowment, I think in 
'92. She taught here on indigenous — stealing indigenous culture. I  
took her class and wrote a paper, where I profiled indigenous 
native women stopping— She actually wanted to print— I forgot 
about that. I wrote a paper that Winona wanted to write a book 
with me about, and I didn't have the resources to do it— where I 
profiled activist, indigenous women returning to native practice, 
and economic survival. Starting with Winona, if you think about all 
what she has contributed to the history of women and native 
people in this country. So, I know her. I can call her a friend. I have 
always raised consciousness to that very fact, because Eugene being 
the hippie land that it is, and me liking the hippies, because they 
seemed to be fascinated with me, as a native person. Eventually, I 
started going, "Look, you came from somewhere, too. I'm actually 
native." If I want to do a ceremony, I'm going to do it with my 
people, my native people. It's different. It's not going to be an 
appropriation. Stop appropriating, and find who you are. So I just 
found that kind of words. But it did, it really took a while to find 
those words, an awareness. Is that what you meant?   
Raiskin:  Yeah.   
Stockford:  I mean I'm still sensitive to it. I've had really long conversations 
with former hippies, now therapists— 
Raiskin: I mean  in particular about women's land ritual—  
Stockford:  About specific to women's land ritual? I didn't have the words at 
that time. I didn't have enough awareness or words at that time. 
Because it really seemed like a mish mash, frankly, of pagan   
spirituality, Wiccan, ex-nuns, some native, some Celtic. This mish 
mash of— And dreaming, which is Jungian, and I think that it was 
really a strong desire to find a way of deep meaning about being  a 
lesbian. I can look back on it now, and I can see that there's just a 
deep search for meaning and connection that's real, and it crosses a 
lot of boundaries and barriers like that.  
Raiskin:  And it was incredibly meaningful for you, at the time, what you 
were— 
Stockford:  It was.   
Raiskin:  Yeah.   
Stockford:  I mean, the worst of it were rattlesnakes, and not having enough 
money, and gay-bashing. And you know, gay-bashing, meh. I 
never got really hurt, because the late '80s is was when the AIDS 
epidemic was on, and I became an activist about that. I held my 
friends  when they died. Men, gay men, we all did. I went to San 
Francisco and sat on the steps of Health and Human Services, and 
tried to make my voice heard about how poorly people with HIV 
were treated. At that time, I thought, "Lesbian, piece of cake." Gay 
man  with AIDS, damn, those guys suffered. They suffered with 
hate and fear. And they were the sweetest men. I mean I think I got 
a little— my activism took a turn at that time. And all that 
wonderful activism got me to therapy school.   
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about that?    
Stockford:  In about 1990— before  we get to 1990, can I say one more thing? I 
formed a permanent partnership with a woman after Sky. Sky and I 
were only together nine months, and I had a couple of other lovers 
that were short term. But I formed my first long-term relationship 
with Jen Anderson, who I'm still dear friends with, in 1986. She and 
I met, and I think I probably moved in with her around '87. We 
stayed together thirteen  years, and we are still friends. We had a 
really civil breakup in the '90s. I grew a lot. We quit smoking 
cigarettes— bleh!  and stuff like that. But I was with the phone 
company consistently. She rose to a position of leadership in 4J, and 
she was a closeted lesbian, kind of, but an outspoken feminist. She 
came out. But we went to Wings. I just want to mark that Wings 
seminars in the late '80s also was assistive to me in not being afraid 
of who I was. I did some of their seminar work, and I still— It's not 
a perfect world at Wings— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe what Wings is?  
Stockford:  Yes, sorry. “Personal Effectiveness Seminars” is what they called 
themselves. They came forward in the '80s, and you'd go for four or 
five days of fifteen-hour  days. You would just process through all 
of these opening-ups. You would find that people are just afraid of 
each other, and there's nothing to be afraid of, and who you are is 
beautiful, and wonderful. That's not a very good summary, but I 
did a lot of my first, personal work there. That wasn't in the lesbian 
community, but I was out as a lesbian. In day one in the seminar, 
they said, "Who wants to go first?" I'm like, "Well, I do." So, I stand  
on stage, and I'm wearing these black cowboy boots, and my black 
jeans, and my black T-shirt. I'm a dyke. I'm like, "Hi!" There's no 
doubt I'm a dyke. And they go, "Well, why do you dress like that?" 
And I go, "I like it. I feel good this way. These are my dyke boots. 
What's the problem here?" And they were intentionally being 
provocative to break it down. Now, they challenged all stereotypes,  
men and women, girl and boy. But they weren't very good at it. I 
went back five years later, and did a consciousness raising seminar, 
and they paid me. I told that story, and they said, "Oh yeah, that 
was homophobia." And so, it's been on since I came out  that I raise 
people's consciousness about homophobia and racism, and gender-
ism of any kind, and able-body-ism, and body image-ism. Don't get 
me started on body-shaming, for example. I'm a person who fights 
to love everyone. In the phone company, by the way, I was a 
diversity trainer, and I did go to southern Oregon to do a training, 
a three-day seminar where they called it “pluralism.” I faced the Ku 
Klux Klan in that seminar, and I lost my composure. We're trying 
to explain why it's a good business model  to think of everyone's 
ideas as helpful. That was the point. And they're saying, "Why can't 
we be in the KKK? You should accept everybody." And I couldn't 
maintain. I have really met hate in my life. Okay. But that, those 
seminars, and that work with the phone company, and my coming 
out, and my activism led me to want something different for my 
work. To do my work in a way that was in alignment with my 
values. That's how I got to where I am now. The phone company 
announced a closure, and an early buyout, and I took it, and they  
helped me go to school at Portland State, in the Masters of Social 
Work program. Which I started in my last year, in 1991. My last 
year at the phone company I also went to school, distance learning. 
That was gruesome, because they were in Portland. We would 
travel for a nine-hour  course on Wednesday, and I'd go back to 
work. But my second year I was finished with the phone company, 
and just a grad student. I started being a counselor, social worker. I 
started with teenagers, because teenagers were open to the world. I 
started teen groups, young women's teen groups. We called our 
youth group “Colors.” I let the kids name it. They were all 
teenagers in recovery from substance— 
Raiskin:  Did you work for an agency?   
Stockford:  I did. I worked for Looking Glass, yes. For my first five years that 
was my early proving ground where you get $22,000 a year, work 
sixty-five hours a week, and you're never ahead on paperwork. 
There were no computers yet, really. So, being a lesbian was less 
relevant  because I was so focused on learning to be a lesbian and— 
Raiskin:  A therapist.   
Stockford:  I was in a— Right. Sorry, learning to be a therapist. I was in a long-
term relationship that was satisfying in a deep way. She had two 
children, Chris, and Brian. They grew up and moved out. We grew 
apart after I graduated from my graduate program in '96. We didn't 
make that final transition.   
Raiskin:  Why do you think that was?    
Stockford:  Well, I know why. Because I also did a recovering, co-dependents 
anonymous for ten years. I was never happy with her maintenance 
use of alcohol, and her introversion, and staying home. We had 
jokes. I would leave the house. I would be, “I'm off to a party.” “I'm 
off to a rally.” “I'm off to an organizing meeting.” I was always off 
to do something like that. I'm naturally a social worker. And she 
would complain that I didn't stay home and watch TV. That sweet, 
warm, safe place became cold. My consciousness was raised by 
therapy school that I could leave. It took us five years to split up. I 
mean, we are still close. She's seventy-three or four. We look at 
grandchildren, and talk about our aging and health problems. We 
just have lunch once a month, and it's very satisfying to feel that I 
still have a loving relationship through everything you go through 
in life. So many things, you know. So that was— 
Raiskin:  Does the time that you were in school was also— and you were in 
Portland once a week, was also the time of Measure 9? I'm 
wondering if that intersected in your life in any significant way.   
Stockford:  Laurie, the investment person, Laurie— 
Raiskin:  McClain?   
Stockford:  Yes, McClain, was a heavy organizer of Measure 9. I went to 
organizing meetings for that. We did a wonderful fundraiser for 
Measure 9, just as an organizing supporter, one of the many, not as 
a leader. Cina Kraft was part of that leadership. Oh my God, I hope  
you interview Cina Kraft. She's so rich with history in this town. 
And she still plays, and knows the most beautiful music on earth.   
Raiskin:  She's still on Monday nights on KLCC .  
Stockford:  Yes. Though she announced her retirement's ahead. I know. One of 
the great, old lesbians. There are so many great, old lesbians in this 
town. Oh my God. I mean, I became more active at Measure 9, with 
lesbians in Eugene. So that was different than the southern Oregon 
women's land womb of growing that I treasure.  It sounds so 
dramatic when I say it. But they were powerful beyond measure. 
They created change in this world. You know that. And then there 
was Measure 9.   
Raiskin:  Did it affect you emotionally, that kind of hatred against gays and 
lesbians?   
Stockford:  Okay, and then there's also Measure 22, from Springfield-  
Long: Can you talk about that?   
Stockford:  Well, Springfield says it's illegal to be queer, or you can't be 
protected if you teach a class, or— they  wouldn't cover— I still, I'm 
still outraged that the Springfield Human Rights Commission in 
2019 does not offer protection to queers. They are not represented 
on the Springfield Human Rights Commission. Measure 22 did not, 
as an anti-gay measure, and I worked against that. So, I have, in my 
own Laura way, boycotted Springfield since then. For twenty years 
or something. People say, "Let's go to Springfield and eat at that  
new—." And I'm like, "No." And I explain that I do not spend my 
money in Springfield, and I still don't. There are places that 
supported Measure 9, one of the ways of countering Measure 9 was 
we made known who was giving money to the conservative 
people. Hiron's Drugstore, and let's  see if I can even remember 
anyone else. No, I can't.   
Long: Rexius maybe? Was Rexius— 
Stockford:  Yeah, I'm sure the Rexius family was part of that.   
Raiskin:  The old owners of Gray's?   
Stockford:  Yep. Yep. The old owners.   
Raiskin:  Of Gray's— 
Stockford:  You know, I can say to their credit, they did have a cat.  
Raiskin:  But not current. Not current  [owners].  
Stockford:  Yeah.   
Stockford: Right. I was one of those people who took the list, sorry, no paper. 
And held the list up and said, "Look, don't spend your money 
here." I leafleted. Remember in those days we leafleted to raise 
awareness? So, I was part of fundraising and leafleting. I talked 
about stories of when people were harassed. Consciousness-raising 
was language we used. I would say that's how I was  active in that. 
Did it affect me personally? It just made me more resolute.    
Long: For clarification purposes, can you tell us again, that Measure 22 
was Springfield?   
Stockford:  It was a Springfield city measure.   
Long: Springfield city measure, okay.   
Raiskin: I think it was one of the “Son of 9's” I think, yeah.   
Stockford:   It was, that's right.  
Long: And so it was after 9 was defeated—  
Stockford:  It was after 9. Yes, that Springfield was like, "Okay, well. You can 
defeat Measure 9, but you're not going to defeat Springfield." And I 
went, "Well, then I'm never spending money there again. And you 
guys suck." But since then, this new awareness is out. All us queer 
people live in Springfield, too. It really pushes my boycott 
situation. Because they don't always feel safe. Springfield is a 
working-class town. It started as a mill town. It's less so a mill town 
now. It's also a hospital town. It is changing in its nature. But by its 
nature it has cheaper housing, and it's more working-class, and it is 
more conservative in its attitudes towards accepting people. So, I 
tend to not like it. Because now I do my work in a different way, 
which is where we left off. I do my work in the therapy room, and 
in a social work way. I had big conversations with people, "Oh, 
you're going to be a therapist now. That's not activism." There is a 
good conversation about that. But I needed a way to make a living  
that was aligned with my values, and the phone company was not 
the answer. I did help make a difference there.   
Long: For the record, can you tell us what your actual job at the phone 
company was?   
Stockford:  I was a sales and service representative.   
Long: Okay.   
Stockford:  They closed in 1992, that area. The police station now is in that 
building. Eugene police. It was  that building on Country Club 
Road. Yeah, so I talked to people, disconnecting, and changing, and 
adding fancy things to their phone service, and buying telephones.   
Long: What was the phone company name? It's hard to remember now, 
but—  
Stockford:  It's changed several times. It started out as Pacific Northwest Bell.   
Long: Okay.   
Stockford:  Then there was US West, and it had to do with splitting up the 
phone company into regions. And then technology changed during 
the next time with the phone company. It changed again. I don't 
even know what it's called now because I don't work there 
anymore. But landlines, whose got a landline? It's really shrunken 
down. There weren't even cell telephones when I worked there. 
They had started with that block telephone. It  was so fancy. 
Remember that? "I've got my cell phone." and it was this big block  
that had to be plugged into your car, and you could be like, "I'm in 
my car in another town."   
Raiskin: Can you tell us about your growth as a therapist, and what you 
appreciate about your work?   
Stockford:  Yeah. So, I did move from Looking Glass into adult and family 
treatment. I trained under Erika Waechter. God, I hope you 
interview Erika Waechter, who is eighty-six, and started an agency 
called The Center for Family Development. My friend Jennifer and 
I made a film about Erika last year, because she finally retired. But 
she did the early family systems training with the American Family 
Therapy Academy. I'm a proud member. I have been nominated, 
and elected, and participate in this academy. It's a little bit 
academic, sorry you two.  It's full of academics with about 15 
percent field supervisors, which is what I'm in there under. It 
studies the depth of systems thinking, which is incredibly 
important when you think about people, diversity, change, and 
how it works. Where I am now is— I'm actually on my way out of 
the agency. A quarter time, I'm wrapping up, and I have a private 
practice. I simply need a softer life. The agency is a very 
demanding life. I've been a teacher there. They call it a teaching 
clinic— I've taught in the teaching clinic, whatever, new therapists. 
It's been an honor. I am the transgender coordinator for the agency. 
I do work with transgender people now, primarily. It is the next 
iteration of my activism, really, is to help people sort that out, and 
realize who they are. I'm doing the work I always wanted to do.  
Which is this idea of self-realization, plus freedom for people to be 
who they are. And I feel very, very self-activated, and good about 
what I do now as a different way of activism. Because now I'm 
sixty-one, and I have all that great wisdom you get over time.   
Raiskin:  What's most challenging to you about being a therapist?   
Stockford:  So, my website, I'm out on my website. Wait, we skipped a chapter. 
Can we go back?  
Raiskin:  Yeah, sure.   
Stockford:  Nineteen ninety-six, I started taking a class with the Lesbian 
Ballroom Dance Club, which LaRosa and Maura Scanlon, maybe 
one other person started as a swing club. We had a local lesbian 
newsletter. I was on the cover dancing. I have a picture with me. I 
started the Lesbian Ballroom Dance Club a few years later. We gave 
classes for lesbians to learn ballroom dancing, and swing dancing, 
and partner dancing. It was  really a fun chapter. So that was about 
ten years of my life. I did do one competition in the San Francisco 
area of the National Gay and Lesbian Ballroom Dance Competition. 
I did one competition. I might have a picture of that, with Maureen 
Kelly, Mo Kelly. We were not professional competitors. We were in 
the first level, you're not considered a professional. You're 
considered an amateur. I've got some ribbons from that. But it was 
really fun to be in a different environment with all these athletic 
gay and  lesbian dancers. It was another little chapter in the late '90s 
that was fun. It was really fun.    
Long: When you did the dances in Eugene, where was that located?   
Stockford:  We had more than one place. Do you know Upstart Crow Studio, 
on— 
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm  [affirmative].   
Stockford:  You do? That's where, that was one of the places we had classes.   
Raiskin:  It's on First?   
Stockford:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.   
Stockford:  That's where it started. But then we got that— it’s a place called 
Studio B on Eighth, now above Cosmic Pizza, and above Brenner's 
Furniture. But Brenner's Furniture has furniture in it now, even 
though they have beautiful dance floors in there. Anyway, so we 
had our dance club there mostly. We had community dances, at the 
Hilyard Center, community center where we opened it up and 
taught a basic lesson. We had two or three at the Hult Center 
downstairs, where everybody— 
Raiskin:  Did you ever dance the Vet's Club?   
Stockford:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  There's swing groups that meet there.   
Stockford:  Yes. But  not as the Lesbian Ballroom Dance Club, which is that 
what you're asking me, though?    
Raiskin:  Yeah, just what different places that you— 
Stockford:  I danced a lot at the Vet's Club, but not really with the lesbian 
group because it's expensive to rent, and it's really big. So it's more 
of an event venue than a class venue. Yeah, I really love dancing. I 
still dance. I'm in this class, Laura Taylor is a  local ballroom dance 
teacher in her sixties, married to Robert Phaigh. They've been dance 
teachers all their lives. And they taught the Lesbian Ballroom 
Dance Club, but we ran out of resources to produce that. So 
sometimes I have to dance with smelly, old  men. I don't really like 
it. But no one has the skill level anymore. Mo moved to Portland. 
My partner has a new knee. In your sixties, all these things happen. 
But you asked me a reflective question. I've forgotten— 
Raiskin:  What's challenging to you about your therapy work? That one?   
Stockford:  Negotiating insurance systems. It's a boring answer, sorry.   
Raiskin:  It's where we are.   
Stockford:  Negotiating insurance systems, that's where we are in this country 
at this time.  
Raiskin:  Let me ask you another  question about your transgender clientele.   
Stockford:  Sure.   
Raiskin:  And how you trained yourself, how you move from identification 
as a woman only spaces, that whole world, to working with 
transgender people.    
Stockford:  It's less intentional than you think. I was always about having 
women's or girls groups. But at some point in the early '90s, and the 
aughts,  from the year 2000 to the year I don't know, 2010. That's 
when to me, the piece of history started to shift. We had made it 
through the AIDS crisis. It was the transgender time of coming out, 
just this century. I started getting in my work as a mental health, or 
substance abuse counselor, transgender clients. And because I was 
an out lesbian, they said, "Here, you should see these people." And 
I went, "Okay." I mean it started out almost inadvertently. And 
then I learned a lot about their journey, and their pain, and— wow. 
It wasn't a far jump for me, for who I am, to go, "Oh, here's the next 
piece of advocacy for me."  Because there was a time when lesbians 
were not liking trans men. They were mean. It's an all-women’s  
meeting, trans women are not women. What? And then those big 
political conversations— 
Raiskin:  Do you remember being in those conversations?   
Stockford:  Yes. And at first I was like, "Oh, well, okay." Kind of like, "What do 
we have to lose here?" So yeah. I'm their advocate now. I 
understand there are still some lesbian women who only want 
women who were born women biologically, together as a source of 
power. It's legitimate, in that women haven't had power. But let me 
just say that if I was born a man, and I realize that this was not a fit 
in some way, and I wanted to be woman-identified, hello? That's 
not a step up in the world, you know? Being a trans woman is the 
hardest thing in the world for people. You can die. They're the  
number one targeted group by hate— I mean what, why would we 
not be linking hands? I don't get that. I'm passionate about it. You 
know, I would say the only hard thing about— there's one other 
aspect of this that's a little hard. Which has to do with where the 
line of being a therapist and being an activist, and then being a 
friend. There are boundaries when you're a therapist. And the 
boundaries create a somewhat in life for this extrovert, and the line 
is thin. So here's how I divide it right now. I go to rallies, or public 
events. I— trans clients who are— because I see a lot of youth who 
are afraid. I meet them there. I say, "You don't have to identify who 
I am to you. I'm your auntie. I'm your friend, whatever. Let's go." 
Trying to help them be, and be— realize who they are. But it is in a 
way, how I finally got what I wanted. I'm getting paid to do the 
work that matters to me, and to this world. I get to do that now. Put 
it on my  gravestone, or whatever memorial thing I have that's not a 
gravestone. I helped people self-realize. I walked up to the line in 
any way that I could that was within— you know you have all 
these rules you have to follow as a therapist. You have ethics, and  
professional associations and all of that.  
Raiskin:  What's the conflict between the rules and what you want to do?   
Stockford:  Right. Well, right now, I don't attend organizing meetings as a— I 
started identifying myself as no gender, as a political statement. But 
it's really funny, when I was a queer, I'd write, sex, yes. Because I 
was a smart ass and I hated being divided into genders. I just 
thought that was so stupid, even in the '80s. I would always do  
stuff like that. I would always mess with gender. So I think I would 
be a little more active, politically. It's really all the energy I have to 
do this for others' individual paths. That's where my focus is right 
now. I don't know if I answered your question.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].   
Stockford:  It can be a lonely life as a therapist. I go to an event where some 
great lesbian comes to speak at the EMU or perform. I will come as 
an out lesbian, but there will be clients, former clients, ex-lovers of 
clients. I'm surrounded by the history that I have  a commitment to 
keep private and confidential. People connect, and I just go, "Uh-
oh." It's all an internal story about— You can't talk about it.   
Raiskin:  And you hold a lot of that history.   
Stockford:  I do. I'd say that's a little challenging.   
Raiskin: Are you retiring?   
Stockford:  Yes, eventually. So, I'll be eventually retiring from my agency, 
probably at the end of this year, maybe next year. I'm quarter time 
at CFD, and three-quarter  time in private practice. And then I'll be 
in private practice until I don't want to do it anymore. Until I feel 
I've made the difference I want to make. Until I have the income I 
need to retire. And as long as my health holds. Knock on wood. 
That's an old wives’  tale, probably some of you never heard of. But 
at any rate, just go part-time in my seventies, so I think that we 
need ten years here.   
Raiskin:  What are your thoughts about aging as a lesbian?   
Stockford:  I always wished we would make lesbian— I always had this 
fantasy that we'd have little cabins in this circle, and we'd all each 
have our cabin, and we'd take care of each other. That was just a 
fantasy, because lesbians are so really divergent in so many ways. 
And finding eight people kind of like me, who kind of want to 
follow the same values, and have enough money, no. Not 
happening in my lifetime. God, I hope it happens for people in the 
future. For women in the future, that they can create the retirement 
life they want. I have interviewed at those lesbian retirement 
communities. There's one in Florida. I went and interviewed with 
Gina what's her name? That's hilarious. All the old lesbian couples 
buy mobile homes, or fancy little homes in this gated community in 
Florida, and they have potlucks and take care of each other, and it's 
very sweet. And it's very middle-class. And it's very white. Can I 
just say those things?   
Raiskin:  And why do you think that is?   
Stockford:  And it's very lesbian-only. I didn't see any trans women, or hear 
about trans women there. So, it's a little stiff for me.   
Raiskin:  Have you been to the one in New Mexico?   
Stockford:  No. I've only seen it on the Internet. Have you?   
Raiskin:  No. I think it's a lot of former military women.    
Stockford:  Oh. I think it would be fun to visit. Military women, what's not to 
love?   
Raiskin:  There is a couple I know from here, who's moved there. Not 
military.   
Stockford:  And you know, and it brings me to another identity. I have 
identified as a femme much of my life. I was androgynous in the 
beginning, and then I realized, "I'm really a femme here, people." 
My heart pounds for a tall, butch woman, still. Or trans man. It's 
very interesting how that attraction changed for me, how I think 
trans men are so wonderful, and beautiful in their own way.   
Raiskin:  There's been some regret, for loss of butches.   
Stockford:  No kidding.   
Raiskin:  I'm wondering what you think about that.   
Stockford:  Sad loss. Sad loss. Because I think people who were butches in the 
past are more trans men-like now. I think that there's crossover 
there.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].   
Stockford:  I don't really like facial hair though. That's where I draw the line  
[laughs].  
Long: Can I ask a follow-up question about your time at— 
Stockford:  Please, please do, because I'm distracted.   
Long: When you were living at Elkay Island.   
Stockford:  Oh yeah.   
Long: Can you tell us a little bit more about the living relationships. Were 
there any kind of conflicts with the group of people who lived 
there? Was there coming and going, people live for a while and 
then leave, and then some people come?   
Stockford:  Yep.   
Long: And then how did you manage finances? You mentioned the two 
women who owned some property, but how did you, did other 
people pay rent? What was all that like?   
Stockford:  My rent was $60. Because I worked part time and I had a whole 
house. However, my second bedroom was up-for-grabs, to the 
collective, which wasn't an official collective. But it was the time of 
the collectives in Eugene. I'm sure you must be interviewing 
Ladybug Collective, and the Hoedad tree planting group, and the 
coffee houses. I never talked about Mother Kali’s, oh my God. 
Well— 
Raiskin:  No, do.   
Long:  But first tell us about the details of living at Elkay Island.  
Stockford:  Uh-oh. I'm off the tape  [moves chair]. Okay. It started with low 
rent. Oh, you adjusted to my wiggle.   
Long: Yeah, it's okay.    
Stockford:  So, it started with them really offering me sanctuary with low rent. 
I just read a letter from Betsy, who had moved to Berkeley, who 
said, "What is wrong with you that you can't pay the rent on time?" 
I just read that this morning, and I was like, "Oh yeah." And I'd 
start hustling up what I needed to send Betsy. It was tight 
financially. But it was kind in its own way, because it was 
collective. We fed each other. I made brown rice and tofu, do you 
want to come over? Typical meal. Because it was so inexpensive 
and well there's a tofu collective in Eugene, so tofu's really cheap if 
you just go get it in bulk, etc. etc. You  would go to the collective 
Growers Market and get your vegetables, and so we lived not 
always as a group, but often. We would share the refrigerator. We 
would share the food we made. We would share the No Name 
Beer. That was really funny. There was a refrigerator in the garage 
we all used. We would just buy a case of No Name Beer, and 
whoever came in could have a beer. And then we'd pitch fires in 
the evening. It was a good life. I can't tell you, because we sang in 
the sauna. We got sweaty and we sang. It  was so amazing. I don't 
know how to accurately portray how important this coming out 
place was.  
Raiskin:  Did you want to read your coming out letter?   
Stockford:  It's not a letter. It's just a journal entry. Is this time?   
Raiskin:  Yeah.   
Stockford: I need a moment to find it.    
Raiskin:  Okay.   
Long: That's all right. Go ahead.   
Stockford:  Okay, I'm just not going to be doing anything.  
Long: That's okay.   
Stockford:  Can I stand up in my chair to look at this?   
Long: Sure.   
Raiskin:  Sure.   
Stockford:  Oh good, my back's killing me. Okay. April 24, 1984. I'm going to 
read from my journal. [Reads:] “It's a Tuesday. Trying to shake a 
sore throat. I made a fire with the last of the wood. I don't know 
what I'll do for wood until I can get some. I never actually bought 
wood before, I've always scavenged it. So I made whole wheat 
noodles, and tofu, and cheese for dinner, and a nice fire. I found out 
I'm starting a job Monday. Today, I move out. On Thursday I am in 
[inaudible 01:27:14] [sorry, I don't know what that means.] There is, 
I relish in the lovely fragrance of the smell of Sky's hair, which 
smells like the fire. For about thirty  minutes, the beautiful women 
in the Applegate Valley who tell me I should start my own 
business. The 29th, Sunday. There's a lot happening. Reading a 
book on the laws of money. My fear of being alone in the house. 
But I got ready for Dawn's concert. [Oh, this is right where I come 
out.] I went to the Saturday Market. It was a beautiful evening 
outside. A bunch of my favorite people were there. Friends, Reba,  
Leslie, Kim. [I hope he's okay.] Emily, Thyme and Betsy, Dawn and 
Sky.  I drank a little, smoked a little, jammed a little. Sky plays the 
flute. And danced until late. Sky and I made love until 5:15AM. She 
pooped out first. Awoke Sunday morning and made love. What a 
high we are on. Washed and dressed for breakfast at the old 
Keystone Café on 5th.” 
Raiskin:  Thank you.   
Stockford:  Yeah, thank you very much.   
Raiskin:  This was great.   
Stockford:  Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  
 