  
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Lisa Anderson on September 14, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon's recording studio in 
the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender  and Sexuality Studies. Lisa, please let us know if you agree 
to be recorded for this project.  
Anderson:  I do.  
Long:  And that you give your permission for the university to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.   
Anderson:  You bet.  
Long:  Okay, thank you. So let's start with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us  when and where you were born, and something about your 
early years?  
Anderson:  I was born in '58, in Burlingame, California, but I grew up in San 
Bruno. That's just where the hospital was. I lived there until I was 
thirteen, and against our wishes my dad moved us down the 
peninsula, which turned out to be a really good thing for us.  
Raiskin: Where did you move to?  
Anderson:  Los Altos. It was a very uncomfortable move, but I think it was life 
changing for all of us. Not necessarily all immediately good, but I 
think if we had stayed in San Bruno  I would have been married 
with two-point-seven  children and been a dental hygienist  or 
something. Nothing against dental hygienists, but just— 
Long: Just not your thing.  
Anderson:  Yeah, it was just— it wouldn't have been a very imaginative 
existence, and our family was very much into being different.  
Raiskin: In what way?  
Long: Yeah, what way?  
Anderson:  Let's see. I think for a while my parents were— probably more my 
dad, were a little hippy-ish. He came around and went back to 
being ultra-Republican, but he grew pot, he sold pot, he did drugs,  
we had— the rule was no dope smoking on school nights, and that 
was more for my brother than me. I was the straighter one in the 
family, not that into drugs. I had to rebel against something. And 
what else? Oh, they would say, like, "The family that gets stoned 
together stays together." So it was  very different. I'd come home 
from school, maybe they'd be cleaning a pound of pot on the 
kitchen table.  
Raiskin: When it was illegal.  
Anderson:  Yes, yes. And there were things like acid and stuff in the freezer, 
and that was something that most of my family did. And I would 
dabble in it, but it wasn't really my thing.  
Raiskin: Is this what your parents did for their livelihood?  
Anderson:  Eventually my dad, yeah. He moved to Mendocino County and 
grew for, I don't know, at least twenty  years or so. When I think 
about it, it's like, well, some of my inheritance was definitely from 
his pot growing.  
Raiskin: Why do you say if you had stayed in San Bruno  you would have 
had a more conservative life?  
Anderson:  Just everything was all about being normal and fitting  in, just doing 
what everybody else does. And I think that's what— it was 
suffocating to my father. My mother loved it. She fell apart when 
we moved to Los Altos. That was very difficult, losing her whole 
support system, all the other mothers in the neighborhood.   
Raiskin: What was your neighborhood like in Los Altos?  
Anderson:  There's no neighborhood. I don't know any neighbors from there at 
all. 
Raiskin: Because it was more— 
Long: At that time it was relatively rural?  
Anderson:  No. Yeah, there were no sidewalks, but it was a little more affluent. 
We bought the house from a friend, a family friend, a college friend 
of my parents, and so it was a different socioeconomic level, and so 
it felt uncomfortable. And when I moved, I was in eighth grade, 
and doing German and algebra, and the middle school down there 
didn't have that, so my mom  got me put into high school. So, bam, 
at thirteen  I'm in high school. There were things like that, that 
shook things up quite a bit.  
Raiskin: What was your high school experience like?  
Anderson:  I don't think I ever really figured out where I fit in. I got a boyfriend 
really quickly, and that was good to have somebody there. Because 
the sense in my family when we moved to Los Altos was 
everybody was off doing their own thing, and so it was nice to have  
that, a bit of an anchor. He was strange. It's funny, a few years ago 
he looked me up, I think from Facebook, and said he still carried a 
torch for me. I think it's just because he had a pending divorce and 
was looking for the next person to be with.  
Raiskin: So you were  thirteen, was he older than you?   
Anderson:  Just a year, yeah. And so that's who I became sexually active with, 
and sometime during the time with him started exploring 
bisexuality. I think that maybe there was a class that I took on 
human sexuality in high school, and they had— what  are the two 
women from San Francisco?  
Long: Phyllis Lyon and Del Martin.  
Anderson:  Yeah, one of those two came and talked. And that opened some 
doors, and so I started experimenting. Probably I was fifteen  or so.  
Raiskin: So there were other girls in your high school who were interested 
in that.  
Anderson:  Yeah, interested maybe, but nothing serious. More like just 
experimenting.  
Raiksin: And did you leave home right after high school? 
Anderson:  Yeah. I graduated when I was sixteen  because I went through all 
the coursework really fast. I did a lot of science, which— the high 
school was run more like a college, where you got so many credits 
for a class, and things like science classes  were more credits, so I 
finished up. I could have been done even earlier, and it's like what 
am I going to do? So I waited until— right before my seventeenth  
birthday, I think, is when I officially graduated.  
Raiskin: Did you understand yourself to be a smart girl?   
Anderson:  Oh yeah. Definitely. And we got a lot of strokes for that, my sister 
and I. Not my brother, unfortunately, from our parents. They were 
both very smart. My mom  was the first— well, only person in her 
family to go to college, and she was  chosen to be one of the few 
women to go to the college that was my dad was at. It had been 
men only, and this was a thing of bringing in just a handful of 
women.  
Raiskin: Where was that?  
Anderson:  In New Mexico. So, yeah, I was off a lot. Off doing things, off being 
a hippy, I had a hippy boyfriend. And then I would come back. My 
mom  had left somewhere in there. She'd ran away from home, as 
she calls it. She needed to go do her own thing. It was at the height 
of feminism and all that, and so— 
Raiskin: How old were you when she left?  
Anderson:  I don't know because I wasn't there, but somewhere between 
sixteen  and nineteen. 
Raiskin: And where were you?  
Anderson:  Maybe hitchhiking around the country, or with a boyfriend going 
and care taking— some friends of his had a vineyard. We'd stay 
there while they were in Europe. We lived together for a while in 
Mountain  View. I do remember I went away to college, to 
Humboldt, but I didn't really want to do it. I missed my boyfriend, 
and so my parents invited us to live back at the house with them.  
So, okay, seventeen, she was still there when I moved back. Yeah, 
just I'd go and come back. And when I broke up with that 
boyfriend I remember I moved back and it was just my dad there, 
and my brother, at that time. So, yeah, I am putting some dates in 
there. It's challenging to remember this stuff this far back.  
Raiskin: So you were hitchhiking, you were thinking about what you 
wanted to do. What made you think about Eugene?  
Anderson:  I was done with the Bay Area. I think I was on the second cross 
country hitchhiking trip and I was stopping at women's bookstores, 
and then I'd just find a place to stay with someone who was kind 
enough to offer their couch. And I'd tell people, "Oh, I think I'm 
moving to Eugene." And the story I always tell people is I was done 
with California, I knew I wanted to live on the West Coast. I didn't 
like Washington, Portland seemed too far north, so Eugene. Okay, 
there, I'm moving there. And I hear it has a good women's 
community. There wasn't a lot of thought put into it. I was nineteen  
when I moved here.  
Raiskin: You were already looking for a women's community. You were 
stopping in women's bookstores.  
Anderson:  Uh-huh. Yeah. And I had been part of— I had a girlfriend for a 
little bit— God, I don't remember the name of the place in Palo Alto 
or Menlo Park. But there was a women's group, maybe it was 
bisexual, maybe it was lesbian and bisexual, I think, and that's  
where I met her. So it was already in my awareness that that could 
be— there was stuff out there.  
Raiskin: And when you're hitchhiking on this trip, you're stopping at the 
bookstore, are you by yourself?  
Anderson:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I went with my girlfriend for a little bit. 
We went across Canada, and then down Sault Ste.  Marie, and we 
went to the Michigan Women's Music Festival.  
Raiskin: What year did you go to that? Do you remember?  
Anderson:  I'm thinking that was '77. And that's when I officially came out and 
stopped saying bisexual, and said, "As long as I don't have to hate 
men, I'm good." Because there was a lot of that going on, that you 
were supposed to hate men, and that just wasn't me.  
Raiskin: What was your thinking about not identifying as bisexual and 
identifying as lesbian?  
Anderson:  Boy. I don't know, it fit  better, and I think some of the hesitation 
was that that whole anti-male thing seemed like it was supposed to 
go with it, and that didn't fit.  
Raiskin: And it turned out that that wasn't a requirement for you to be a 
lesbian?  
Anderson:  Yeah, but there was  still a ton of women around that were angry 
separatists, not just separatists. Yeah, and there were— 
Raiskin: But you felt more comfortable in that than being bisexual?   
Anderson:  Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I know that just reminds me that when I 
moved here, that there was a uniform you were supposed to wear 
of plaid shirt, and boots, and jeans, and have your hair cut short, 
and I liked long hair and wearing skirts, and you know— I tried to 
fit in that way, but it— I tried cutting my hair short once and, god, 
it was awful. It looked horrible. That's been a theme throughout my 
identity, is trying to figure out where I am. And you weren't 
supposed to say butch and femme. That was out.  
 And it wasn't until, probably, my fifties— I had gone back to being 
with men, and then, no, that didn't work. Back to being with 
women, and, hmm, there was something not— I had just flip-
flopped, and then I ended up with a trans man, and it's like, "Okay, 
I get it. That's what I want in  a partner." I need that more masculine 
energy. I don't need the biological parts.  And, yeah, I'm like, duh, 
more femme oriented, and you can say that now. You weren't 
supposed to say that back in the '70s here. You were just supposed 
to wear the uniform.  
Raiskin: What's different for you from a cisgendered man and a trans man 
that you would choose to be with a trans man?  
Anderson:  The anatomy. Yeah. I think it came down to that, not wanting to 
have sex with a man with the traditional biology. It was fine with a 
trans man. It's fine that the man that I was with, he was totally pre-
op everything and had just done “T” for probably a couple years by 
the time I'd met him. Even though I could see female anatomy, I'd 
look in his eyes and there was zero woman in there.   
Raiskin: Interesting. When you arrived in Eugene in '77?  
Anderson:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin: What did Eugene look like to you?  
Anderson:  It was a haven. There was so much going on in the women's 
community. It's like you could do everything. I was thinking about 
that this morning. I just had an image of— I don't know if you've 
spoken with Lanier Lobdell?  It was like Garbagio’s  went through 
my mind. It's like we even had a freaking garbage company. I don't 
remember if that was all woman owned or not, but I got reminded 
when I sat next to Christine at the second orientation, "Oh, yeah, 
we had a mechanic's shop." It's like we had everything.  
 And that was pretty cool. I liked that. In terms of what Eugene 
looked like, it was smaller. I drive around,  and I see new buildings, 
and I go, "What was there? I don't even remember what was there 
anymore." I used to be able to just pack up my car and go, just 
drive somewhere and go camping. You just can't— I'd pull over 
somewhere near water and I'd find someplace to camp, and you 
just can't do that anymore. It's much more crowded. It's just people 
everywhere.  
Raiskin: How did you connect with the women's community here when you 
came?  
Anderson:  Mother Kali’s  Bookstore, I'm pretty sure. And pretty soon after I 
arrived, I joined that collective. And I know there were six of us. I  
remember Thyme. I don't even know if she's around anymore. I 
remember Linda Waywoman, she called herself, Linda Wayman. 
And I don't remember the other people.  
Raiskin: How do you join the collective?  
Anderson:  I think you just say you want to, and they were probably needing 
people to staff the store.  
Raiskin: So if you work there you're part of the collective?  
Anderson:  Yeah, yeah. There was no pay. I think you could get, I don't know, 
$10.00 of books a month, or something.  
Raiskin: So how did you support yourself?  
Anderson:  When I first moved here I got a little tiny bit of unemployment, but 
you could live on next to nothing here. I lived above the Excelsior 
in what's now a boutique inn.  
Long: Was the Excelsior there at the time, the restaurant?  
Anderson:  Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, the second and third floor, it was all 
women. Shared bathrooms. And then up on the third floor it was a 
communal kitchen.  
Raiskin: Interesting.  
Long: So it was like a boarding house, in a way?  
Anderson:  Place to rent a room. Okay, because I was only there for a couple 
months, then connecting up with Thyme I moved out to her place  
on Elkay  [Drive]. I lived there. What did I do after unemployment? 
I think I did some yard work and sewing. Just odds and ends, and 
one time I went and helped Crescent Construction do some 
demolition, and that was a lot of fun. And this was in the heyday of 
CETA. What's that? Comprehensive Employment Training Act. 
And so I went to them, and I said, "I want to be a carpenter when I 
grow up." And so they paid me to go to school.  
Long: It was called CETA, C-E-T-A? 
Anderson:  Yeah.  
Long: What did that stand for, again?  
Anderson:  Comprehensive Employment Training Act. That was pretty darn 
nice. I got paid to go to school. Not just having tuition and books 
paid for, but I actually got paid a wage to go to school. And after 
living on Elkay  for nine months, then I moved to Hansen Lane, 
both of those are out River Road, with three other women and, god, 
did a lot of growing up there. One of the women eventually bought 
the property and she lived in the chicken shack in the back. It was a 
converted chicken coop. And for one of my projects at the 
construction tech program, I more than doubled the size of that. 
And I have pictures of that here.  
Raiskin : What do you mean, that you grew up during that time?  
Anderson:  At the time, everybody was into— what  was it called? Radical 
Therapy. And so everybody had to be in a radical therapy group. It  
was a leaderless thing, but you followed some certain rules. And I 
remember being terrified at these house meetings until I finally 
realized that they're just people too and I could express myself. I 
learned a lot about communication skills there, and I made good 
use of what I learned in radical therapy, and I'm sure it influenced 
all my career decisions. So, yeah, it was a lot about learning how to 
get along with people, learning how to ask for what you want, 
learning how to say that's not working for me, problem solving. 
Because I lived there for over four years.  
Raiskin: With different people?  
Anderson:  Yeah. There were three of us that were constant, and the fourth 
would change more often.  
Raiskin: That  sounds stable.  
Long: Can you describe a typical week in the lesbian community in 
Eugene back in those days?  
Anderson:  Well, it depends on what you're involved with. Are you involved 
with a music group, an acting group? Are you going to go meet a 
friend at  Gertrude's Café? Maybe Althea is playing the piano there, 
so you want to go. Maybe the women's choir is there. It would 
depend on who you were hanging out with, what you did. I mean, 
it's interesting just hearing the things that come out of my mouth. 
So much of it was about creativity. Those were a lot of the things 
that I was involved in, or I was interested in.   
Raiskin: What would a typical weekend day be like for you?  
Anderson:  No different than a weekday. I never really worked a straight job.  
Raiskin: So what would a day look like for you?  
Anderson:  Let's see. At Hansen  Lane I remember I would practice my flute, 
maybe I'd practice voice, maybe I'd do some yoga, have breakfast 
with whoever happened to be doing that. I don't know if I'd be 
going out and meeting friends, or if I had some kind of work to do. 
God, I just have so little recollection of work.  
Long: But it sounds like you didn't really need a lot to live in Eugene.  
Anderson:  No. No. I remember for a while we had this thing going— this is 
probably the start of law of attraction showing up in Eugene, and 
we'd have the thousand dollar a month club that I'd get together 
with Emmy Fox, who I lived with, and talk about how we could 
make that happen, and what we needed to do with— I guess it was 
our businesses. I don't know. What was I doing then, when I was 
living them? I was doing the carpentry. Yeah, I don't think I started 
doing massage until after I left there.  
Raiskin: But you were a member of the Mother Kali's Book Collective.  
Anderson:  Yeah, you don't get paid.  
Raiskin: But what did you— you still had to be there.  
Anderson:  Yeah. I don't really have any recollections other than, yeah, I knew I 
went there, and, yeah— I remember writing things down, or taking  
people's money, or helping them find things. There's not a lot of 
strong memories there. I can see the books on the shelves. It was 
kind of barren. I don't think there was a lot of good stuff on the 
shelves. There were books that had been on that shelf for a long 
time, and the people who started  Mother Kali's were really into 
Marxism, and so there was just a lot of stuff on that. And by the 
time I got there, I don't think people gave a shit about it.  
Long: Where was it located at that time?  
Anderson:  Fifth and Blair.  
Raiskin: So maybe it grew in its different incarnations.  
Anderson:  Oh, yeah. Absolutely. The people that came after us were able to 
take it to the next level, just like I'm sure we took it to some place 
past the Marxists, making it, maybe, more of a general bookstore.  
Raiskin: When did you study to become a massage therapist?  
Anderson:  Eighty-three. I got a carpentry job out on the coast. It's funny, I was 
just there. I think it was in Seal Rock. And my partner was asking 
me about that, and I told her that— I said, "Yeah, I did this job out 
there where it was awful. It helped me realize I didn't want to do 
this anymore." I was using 2x4s that really were 2x4s and they were 
not— they were roughhewn, and so you'd just get splinters, and it 
was just me, and some of these were really tall. I said, "Okay, great. 
I proved it. I can build houses, I can do finish work, I can make 
furniture. Now what do I really want to do?" And then I had a  
dream about it, about light coming out of my hands, and it's like, 
"Okay, I can take a hint. Going for it." Someone else had told me, 
"Oh, you should do that," and I'm— I just want to get massages. 
Don't want to give them.  
Raiskin: So where were you trained?  
Anderson:  There was a woman. I remember her first name, Robin, don't 
remember the last. She just had a little three month class. There was 
no requirement to get any kind of training. It was just to help you 
study for the licensing exam, and there were a lot of people around 
me who liked the way that I studied because I would pull in visual, 
auditory, and kinesthetic into my learning process, and they said, 
"Well, you help us get ready to take the test." And I said, "Sure." So 
I created a whole curriculum. None of them ever followed through, 
but that was the start of the massage school that I had, which went 
on to be very successful. And I eventually sold it to my business 
partner that I took on towards the end.  
Raiskin: And what did you like about doing massage?  
Anderson:  Maybe the intuitive nature of it, but ultimately I found myself 
talking with people more. And I said, "I probably should go get a 
credential for that," and that ultimately led to getting my master's 
in counseling psych. But I think enjoyed doing the school more, 
enjoyed teaching more, taking people who never thought of 
themselves as someone who could learn science, and helping them 
learn science, and seeing that it was actually a cool thing, and that  
they could then go out and use their gift. I loved working. Because 
there were changes in the laws over the years I had to start taking 
on people, so I couldn't teach all of the topics. And it was nice to 
work with people because I've done so much solo work, so it was 
cool having coworkers.  
Raiskin: What would you say were some of the historical highlights in 
Eugene in the time that you were here? Things that engaged you, 
that were important.  
Anderson:  I think it's the breadth and the depth of all the things that we were 
involved in. That we had a bookstore, that we had a restaurant, that 
we had the “kung-fu-ys,” and we had a garbage thing, and we had 
a mechanic's shop. It's that we were so multifaceted that we would 
pull together for the anti-gay— it was a referendum, but there was 
also Measure 9, and I can't even remember all the things that we 
would— 
Raiskin: Well, you came in '77, so you were  here for the Referendum 51, 
which was to repeal anti-discrimination laws. And then you were 
here for 8, and 9, and 9, and 13, and— 
Anderson:  Okay. Those all ring a bell. Okay.  
Raiskin: Do you remember what you did around those?  
Anderson:  I think I probably did some door knocking, would hang flyers, 
wear buttons, attend rallies, things like that.  
Raiskin: What did it feel like to be involved in that?   
Anderson:  It was natural. It's just like this was what you do.  
Raiskin:  I mean,  were you upset by the measures that were coming out?  
Anderson:  I don't have any memories. I had to have been. It just seems so 
weird that somebody would care, that would go through all this 
effort to get a law on the books. What's it hurting you? It just 
doesn't compute. I didn't come from one of those families that 
disowned me when I came out, so it just didn't make sense. I know 
that a lot of people did, and lost a lot in order to come out.  
Long: But how did your parents or your family react to your coming out? 
Anderson:  The girlfriend who I was in the lesbian and bisexual group with, 
she outed me. My parents knew that there was this group that I 
would go to, and we'd rotate from house to house, and once Gail 
and I had become sweeties we couldn't be in the same group, but 
she had come over and she told them what the group was. So I 
didn't have to, but I was just— 
Raiskin: How did they respond?  
Anderson:  I don't even remember anything because it was a non-issue. They 
were pretty liberal parents. I mean, I streaked my high school and 
my mother's response was, "Oh, Lisa." That was it.  
Raiskin: So streaking was a thing about running naked across the school?   
Anderson:  Yup. Yeah, I did that with my— I guess we had just become ex-
boyfriend and girlfriend, but we just decided to do it. What the 
hell. It's what you did in the '70s.  
Raiskin: You said your father became ultra Republican?  
Anderson:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: That's a big switch, right?  
Anderson:  Yeah. I mean, it happened over time, but he said, "Well, I'm fiscally 
conservative and socially liberal." Because he had to be if he 
wanted to keep smoking pot, and having sex with people he wasn't 
married with, and you kinda had to do that. And we found a way 
to just— we'd touch on it and never go too deep into it. It was not a 
problem. From my parents I just always had the sense of they 
would accept me for whoever I was, and so it went both ways.  
Raiskin: So you were pretty surprised by the anti-gay movement here.  
Anderson:  Yeah, it's weird. I don't get it. I mean, we boycott. There's another 
example of just how the community would come together, that— I 
remember— it's not Lane Forest Products. What's the other one?  
Rexius: Rexius.  
Anderson:  Rexius, yes. That Rexius had supported the OCA.  
Raiskin: The Oregon Citizens Alliance.  
Anderson:  Yes, which is not the Oregon Counseling Association. They had to 
change their name so that they wouldn't be confused. I still don't go 
to Rexius. Or if do, I'm like— they  probably even have new 
management and it's irrelevant, but some of those  things are— they 
die hard.  
Raiskin: So we're in the '80s now, maybe '90s. What would you like to tell us 
about your experiences then?  
Anderson:  I think as I started going more of a professional direction I started 
being less and less involved in the women's community, and it 
would just be that some of my friends were lesbians and some were 
not. And so it wasn't what your sexual orientation was, it was more 
like if we have something in common and we like each other. It was 
not just the women's community. It  didn't mean that I just 
completely cut off from them, but it was no longer a shaping force. 
I mean, I think it played a huge part in developing who I am, and 
it's like how would I describe that? It's just like how does a fish 
describe water because we were all just so immersed in it. It's just 
what was.  
Raiskin: And what was your professional life like?  
Anderson:  What do you mean, what was it like?  
Raiskin: Just what was your life like in the '90s, and what were you working 
on, and what thrilled you?   
Anderson: Currently, I work as a career coach, and so one of the things that I 
tell people is that as I grew and changed, my career had to grow 
and change also. I had a career as a carpenter, and then I had to let 
go of that and move into being a massage therapist, which 
naturally moved me into being a teacher and massage school 
owner. And at some point I felt like just doing body work, my brain 
was rotting and I needed to go back to school. And then I said, "I 
always wanted to be a doctor. Why don't I be a naturopathic doctor 
instead?" And started all the coursework for that, and completed 
that, and went, "Okay. I love science, but I love people more." And 
so that's when I decided to do the master's in counseling and did— 
Raiskin: So you didn't become a naturopathic doctor?  
Anderson:  Mm-mm [negative]. No. 
Raiskin: Why not?  
Anderson:  I did all the prerequisites and it was really interesting going more 
in depth in the sciences. Love it. It helped my teaching for the 
massage school, understanding the chemical processes that are 
involved in physiology, just how I'd be able to explain it better, et 
cetera. But I looked at the curriculum. I went to the schools and 
went, "There's one course on bedside manner, and everything else 
is really in-depth science,  and I want the reverse."  
Raiskin: How was your experience in graduate school?   
Anderson:  I did it independently. I've been self employed most of life, and I 
did it as a student as well. I went through Antioch's Individualized 
Master of Arts program. I didn't even have a Bachelor's degree, I 
just had enough coursework, enough credits for a Bachelor's 
degree, it just wasn't all in the right place. If I had tried to get a 
degree from here, I would have had to have done a year of classes 
that I couldn't give two shits about. And thank god they were 
willing to say, "Yup, we see your life experience, we see your 
coursework. Great, you can do this." I loved all the learning. I loved 
getting to know people out in the community, because it was my 
job to develop my whole degree program and find— what do you 
call that? Degree chair-people? I— 
Raiskin: Supervisors?  
Anderson:  It wasn't just— it was degree committee or something. I can't even 
remember the word that was used. I had to find them. They'd be 
like my advisors, and I'd find them in the community, and then I'd 
find coursework in the community, and some coursework I did at 
U of O, and some at OSU, and so it was all over the place and I 
thought I had a really well-rounded experience that somebody who 
just went to U of O wouldn't have gotten. It would have been much 
more. I would have acted out if I had come here.  
Raiskin: How did you build your clientele? Or your practice, I guess.  
Anderson:  That was one of the challenges, is that when I was finishing up my 
degree I couldn't get my thesis done quite on time to be  
grandfathered in. They were just starting the licensing process and 
HMOs were this wonderful new thing, and so people were no 
longer paying for therapy out of pocket like they were when I made 
the decision to  go into it, and so that was a challenge. That I wanted 
to work with people in a more self-actualizing way, and folks just 
weren't paying for that. And eventually I started taking on 
contracts, and a lot of it was Medicaid, Oregon Health Plan kinds of 
things, although it wasn't called that then. And that's more 
survival. It's on the bottom of Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs, the 
folks that I would work with. And so it was not as satisfying, 
eventually, but it  put food on the table.  
Raiskin: How long did you do that?  
Anderson:  I think just about fifteen  years, and— 
Raiskin: That's a long time.  
Anderson:  Yeah. Burnt out. I did a lot of work with incest and sexual abuse, 
and did a lot of women's groups, which— those were the highlight, 
I think, of my career were leading those. At one point I had three 
groups a week that I was doing, and one of the most important 
things I discovered from that was not so much that people needed 
to recover from their abuse, they needed community. And a lot of 
those women had never experienced community, not like I had. 
See, that's an interesting little piece. I just figured out how 
important having community has been for me, and it started with 
the women's community and moved into other places that I get it.  
But it's key. And I started organizing those groups around 
facilitating them, building community with each other.  
Raiskin: How do you do that?  
Anderson:  It could be something as simple as you have to call somebody. I 
don't care if you just call and say, "I'm making my call. Goodbye." 
You just have to do it. And it would just be enough to break the ice, 
and if there was some way that I saw that somebody was able to 
support someone else, I might suggest they go do something 
outside of group, or— 
Raiskin: How did these women find you and your groups?  
Anderson:  Eugene Weekly. Putting flyers up, back when that used to do 
something. And I was the only one in town doing therapy groups. 
Other people were doing support groups, but no one was doing a 
therapy group so sometimes therapists would send people.  
Raiskin: When you finished doing that, what year was that when you were 
done?  
Anderson:  It was the end of the '90s, beginning of the 2000s. There was some 
fading-out time and my best friend, who was a former sweetie, she 
was working out at the adult high school at LCC, and they needed 
somebody to teach some classes, so I said, "Sure, I love teaching." It 
was like my transition thing that I taught out there for a little bit, 
but I knew that there had been people who had been working part 
time there for ten-plus  years, and they still weren't getting hired on.  
And at that time LCC was— I don't know what they do now with 
part-timers, but maybe they weren't getting the— they were getting 
the short end of the stick a lot and I had started learning Spanish. 
And that just completely changed my life, and once I realized, 
"Okay, I'm not getting anywhere. I'm going to go off to Latin 
America and go have a midlife crisis."  
Raiskin: So, tell us about that.  
Anderson:  Okay, a little bit of a digression. When I ended a relationship with 
somebody in '90 I said, "That's it. I'm done with women." And so I 
dated men for a while. And I went to New Zealand to visit my 
brother, and met a Brit there, and we dated for a little bit, which is 
not easy to do, given that he lived in England and I lived here. And 
after a while I said, "You either got to stay, or I'm done," and so we 
had to get married. We enjoyed each other's company. It was never 
anything really big. It was just we enjoyed each other's company, 
and after a while I didn't. And I was developing a crush on this 
woman, and that was the end of it. And she was Colombian, and 
that's when I had my midlife crisis and went to Latin America. That 
was part of what I did, was go and stay with her, and see what 
would come out of that. Did that answer that question?  
Raiskin: No. So you went to Colombia, and how long— 
Anderson:  Yeah, and Guatemala, and— 
Raiskin: And what were you doing, how long were you there?   
Anderson:  Okay. I went to Guatemala. A long time before that, I saw this little 
thing in a travel magazine of, "Go to Guatemala and do a home 
stay." And it was dirt cheap to stay with a family, and didn't cost 
that much to do an immersion school, and that just stuck in my 
brain, and I went and did that. And that was really amazing. I've 
met people. There are some people I'm still in touch with, especially 
one woman from Ghana who became a coaching client, and I've 
helped her start a school in Ghana, a bilingual Montessori based 
school. That was really cool. And I did that— this midlife crisis. I 
wasn't learning Spanish fast enough in the classroom. People were 
dropping like flies and I'm like, "Step on it. Go faster, faster." There 
was something like a past life, I don't know, that I couldn't learn it 
quick enough.  
Raiskin: You mean you were learning it very quickly.  
Anderson:  Yeah, yeah. I wanted to go faster, faster, faster, and so that's when I 
went. I was done with this husband and I just  went to Latin 
America, came back, and things weren't any different. We were still 
not together, and I decided, "Okay, I'm going to go back to 
Colombia. I'll go teach English." And I researched where the best 
places were to teach English, and you needed a credential to do 
that from Cambridge University, and there was one place in South 
America that taught it, and it was ten blocks from her apartment. 
And I said, "Okay. I'm out of here," and I left six weeks after 9/11.  
Raiskin: You went to Colombia  six weeks after 9/11—  
Anderson:  And, yeah, scared the shit out of my mother. She'd give me 
clippings of all the kidnappings, and it was very much alive and 
well, the kidnappings. I ended up working for the British Council, 
who— I did their training, and then they hired me. We'd get emails 
with maps on them that had green roads, those were okay. Yellow 
roads were check with our spies first, and red roads, definite rebel 
activity. Stay away. So that was very much happening at the time. 
It was a strange time to go there, but you still get up, and you have 
breakfast, and you go to work, and you go to the movies. You just 
keep living life, even though there's somebody on every corner 
with a machine gun who's barely old enough to shave. I'm glad I 
did it, had that  experience  
Raiskin: How long did you teach English there?  
Anderson:  The whole Latin America experience was just about a year. I think 
at the British Council I was probably there around six or eight 
months. Just things were really hard with this woman. I used to 
look at the Colombian  women, the men that would work at the 
British Council, and I'd look at their girlfriends and go, "God, how 
do you put up with it?" And now I'm looking at it, it's like mine is 
doing the same thing. She would really break up with me, 
sometimes as often as every other day, and then think nothing of it. 
The cultures were so different, and I kept trying to say this is a 
cultural difference, and it's [she’s] like, "No. This is the way it is." 
Did I answer that question yet? I can't remember  what the question 
was.   
Raiskin: It's whatever interests you. Whatever you want to share about your 
life. I have no agenda.  
Anderson:  It's interesting talking about being in Colombia. Her mother knew 
that she was gay, but it was never, ever spoken about. And her 
mother would say, "You be nice to her." She knew that we were an 
item and it was never spoken about, ever. Her mother would 
admonish her to be nicer to me and take better care of me. Even her 
own mother could see it.  
Long: Thinking back on your time  in the lesbian community in Eugene, 
what would you say was your greatest joy?  
Anderson:  It was community. It was just having all these interesting people 
here doing interesting things, and you want to start something, you 
could just start it. Have you guys talked to Jeana  Embers? I think 
she's just moving back to town a couple of days ago. She was part 
of the Wallflowers, and we did some dancing together for a while. 
And then she said, "I'm learning this trapeze thing. You want to try 
it?" And so we did that. 
 So we did trapeze for a couple years and it was so cool to just— 
you just want to do something, you do it. The women's cabaret that 
happened, just watching the Wallflowers dance. I wanted to learn 
sign language, so I learned sign language, and so sometimes I 
would do the— I can't even do any of it anymore. I don't remember 
it. Do it as part of performances. There weren't barriers to just  
jumping in and being involved, and I think that for me that was 
just really— it shaped who I am and when I—  
 I work with people who are afraid to take that next step, and it's 
not that I'm unafraid to take steps from time to time, but I notice 
that I have less of a sense of fear about just going and reinventing 
myself. It's not that big of a deal. When I'm done being a coach, I'll 
reinvent myself into something else, and I've done it so many 
times, it's— and I think that the time here contributed to that.  
Raiskin: What do you think your contribution—your significant and 
personal contribution was to the community?  
Anderson: Wow, that's a good question. I don't know that there was any great 
big major contribution, it was just that I would jump in and join the 
fun. Whatever was happening, just being a part of it. Because there 
is that sense of leaving the women's community as my primary 
community sometime during the '80s when I started working as a 
professional, so we're talking about late '70s, early '80s. Yeah, my 
contribution— yeah, I can't think of anything beyond that. It may 
pop up later.  
Raiskin: As you are now still living in Eugene, do you think about aging in 
this community and what that might look like for you?  
Anderson:  I see a lot of women in this community not aging very well. A lot of 
women I can see haven't taken good care of themselves. That 
concerns me. I mean, I've always been someone interested in 
alternative healing and being health conscious.   
Raiskin: What do you mean, not taking good care of themselves?  
Anderson:  Well, you can just see that they're not healthy, and maybe they— I 
don't know their stories, so I don't know what led them to where 
they are currently. So without knowing their stories, but I can tell 
that some women haven't aged well. And for all I know it was an 
accident, or some genetic disorder, or something. I know that I see 
when I'm in situations where there's a lot of lesbians around it's 
like, "Wow. A lot of people haven't aged well."  
Raiskin: Do you think it's different than the broader women in America? Do 
you think there's something different?  
Anderson:  That's a good question. I don't know. I don't know. I hadn't really 
thought about it. It's probably just because I have that long history, 
having been here for over forty  years, seeing how some people 
have aged. I knew them when they were baby dykes and I was a 
baby dyke.  
Raiskin: Yeah. And other older women you see, you didn't know them 
when they were twenty. 
Anderson:  Right. So who knows what their story is.  
Raiskin: And so what do you think for yourself about aging, access to 
medical care, good housing? What's your thoughts about that?  
Anderson:  Yeah. Well, being sixty  it's something that I do think about, and my 
current partner, I told her yesterday, "You need to start thinking 
about Medicare." At six months prior to turning sixty-five, you  
should have it sorted out. That's just a couple months  away. It's like 
me telling her, "You know when you sold that van you probably 
should have invested it in an IRA." I'm trying to bring her up to 
speed because I don't know that she has a good retirement plan 
and— 
Raiskin: Do you?  
Anderson:  I think I could have done better. Had I stuck with LCC or 
something, I would have had a really nice PERS  thing, and so I 
have to be more on top of it. And so much of my life I've been self-
employed, and it's my duty, according to my father, to make sure I 
pay as little tax as possible. So I'm not going to end up with a huge 
social security check, and I am trying to make up for things now by 
doubling up on contributions as much as possible. So it is 
something I think about.  
 Here I am helping take care of my mother, and I'm regularly 
asking, because so many of my friends are childless, who's going to 
take the car keys away from us? I'm just going to have to be with it 
enough to know that I'm no longer safe to drive. My mother, it was 
prying them, practically, out of her cold dead hands, and it was 
only because legal stuff involved.  
Raiskin: What's your ideal housing as you age?  
Anderson:  There's certainly been a lot of talk about— couldn't Dee and I, and 
another couple, couldn't we get someplace and have somebody 
who lives in another wing do some of the caretaking? There's been  
ideas that fly around. When I'm done owning the house I'm living 
in, because it's work to keep up on it, maybe we would move into a 
condo and have less to take care of, and maybe that's good enough. 
It's hard to know. I don't know. Am I going to keep my marbles the 
rest of my life? Am I going to be physically capable? I take pretty 
good care of myself, but I don't know. I could walk outside and get 
creamed by a bus, and be in a wheelchair. I don't know what my 
future holds, so it's hard to plan for those.  
Raiskin: How long have you been with the partner you have now?  
Anderson:  We are coming up on four years.  
Raiskin: Have you thought about getting married?  
Anderson:  I brought it up on the first date. We still don't live together and it's 
a challenge because she runs a DD home and I run a business, and 
those cannot be under the same roof.  
Raiskin: What's a DD home?  
Anderson:  Developmentally Delayed. She took on a foster child, and when 
that was done, eventually she agreed to take on two brothers for 
just overnight, and one of the brothers is still there ten years later. 
And once he got to eighteen, she transitioned her home over to an 
adult developmentally delayed foster home so that he could stay 
there.  
Raiskin: Did you have feelings about when marriage equality happened at 
the federal level?   
Anderson:  Oh, we were so thrilled. We met at Center for Spiritual Living and 
we thought that there'd be— because  half the people who go to the 
Center for Spiritual Living around the world, I swear, are family. 
We thought there'd be a lot of hoopla and there was just some 
inference to it in the Sunday message. And we were like, "What the 
fuck?" We went down to the— there  was supposed to be something 
at some restaurant or bar downtown, and we went there, and there 
was nothing happening. And then, in order for the news to have 
something to put on there, they just— the people that did come, 
they shoved us all into one end so it would look like it was really 
crowded, and I thought, "What is going on here? This is huge. We 
have been fighting for this for years. Do people just not give a shit 
anymore, or what?" So, for me, yes, it was a really big deal.  
Raiskin: Is there  something we haven't touched on that you would like to be 
recorded as part of your oral history?  
Anderson:  I am sure there's more from back in the late '70s and early '80s, and 
it's so fuzzy. Oh, wow, that's funny. That just popped in. We had a 
theater group, Anima  Rising. There's another example of, you 
know, you want to do theater, you want to try that? Great, start it, 
and then go perform, and do benefits.  
Raiskin: What kind of theater did you do?  
Anderson:  Improv.  
Raiskin: And who was your audience?   
Anderson:  Women. I know, I just don't remember that well.  
Raiksin: Who did you do the theater with?  
Anderson:  I remember Cholena, and Cholena doesn't live here anymore. 
Connected back up with her because she found this picture of us 
where there's— one of the places we did rehearsal, there was this 
big plastic dome, and we all got under it and had a picture taken of 
us. I produced concerts. The one I can remember, the most 
memorable, would be Ferron, and another one was Kay Gardner. 
And sometimes I'd do it in  conjunction with the U of O, so that they 
could take over some of the— that’s  what I mean. You could just 
say, "I want to produce concerts," and learn a little bit about it, and 
go do it.  
Raiskin: Where did Ferron  play?  
Anderson:  Oh, it's this little place down Third  and High or Pearl. I don't even 
remember what it was called. It's probably not even in existence 
anymore. Maybe there was a business there at one time, or a 
bakery, or something. I'll probably drive by it and go— yeah. And 
that's where we practiced for theater too. Wow. Yeah, I'm working 
my way through the crevices in here to find all this. Yeah. I can't 
think of anything. I went through pictures and there is one picture 
of Women's Press. It was a picture, and I have to find it again. I'll 
pull that out and you can have that.  
Raiskin: Great. Thank you.   
Anderson:  So, yeah, that's the— anything  you want to do, you can do it. And I 
think that's what my parents— that’s  the attitude that my parents 
raised me with, and so came here, that just flourished. And I think 
that's supported me very well throughout my life.  
Raiskin: Sounds like the right place for you.  
Anderson:  Yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin: Thank you very much.  
Long: Yeah, thank you.  
Anderson:  Okay.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  