  
 
Long:  This interview is part of Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. The 
recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with LaRosa on September 14, 2018 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives  and 
Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO  Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. LaRosa, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
LaRosa: Yes, I do.   
Long:  Thank you. Let's start with the basic question. Can you please tell 
us when and where you were born and something about your early 
years?  
LaRosa: Okay. Well, I was born in Warren, Ohio in 1942 and  I was actually 
born and named Donna Lee Rose. I'll tell you later how I became La 
Rosa. My family moved to Cleveland, Ohio when I was about six 
months old, so I have no connection to Warren, Ohio whatsoever, 
except it's on all of my legal documents, “Where were you born?” 
I'm an only child and my mother and father and uncle started a 
children's clothing store when I was about five, I think, and they 
named it after me. It was called The Donna Lee Shop and that has 
followed me almost all my life. If I ever meet anyone who's from 
Cleveland and Jewish, they probably shopped in The Donna Lee 
Shop. That's been kind of fun. I lived in Jewish community most of 
my life and people were sort of upwardly mobile, moving out to 
the suburbs and we kind of followed that trend somewhat.  
 My parents got divorced when I was about eight and a half, and 
my mother was the worker in the family, so she worked all the time 
I was growing up. One memory that just kind of popped in my 
mind— I didn't come out until I was much older. Probably around 
early thirties, but I do remember that I had a girlfriend in junior 
high school and she used to sleep over a lot. I think that might've 
been my first lesbian experience, but I kind of blocked it. I don't 
remember exactly what happened, but I remember something 
happened. I went to college in Ohio and then I went to graduate  
school in social work in Boston, Massachusetts. From there, I went 
down to Washington, D.C. and worked in a settlement house in the 
ghetto area, the black area of Washington,  D.C. I'm pretty sure that 
my boss there was a lesbian and so were some of the other women 
she hired. I was a slow learner. It took me a little while to figure it 
out. I bopped around the East Coast for a while, Boston, 
Washington, D.C. and then eventually, I moved to San Francisco.  
Raiskin:  Can I just ask you? What year did you go to D.C.?  
LaRosa: I went to D.C. in 1966.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember any anti-war protests at that time?  
LaRosa: Oh yes.  
Raiskin:  In D.C.?  
LaRosa: Yes. Part of my D.C. story is that I was pretty middle of the road 
politically. I probably wasn't real politically conscious or anything, 
but I went to work in the settlement house because I wanted to help 
change the world. What I discovered when I was there is that the 
work I was doing  really wasn't making any changes, it was just 
putting band aids on the situation. I got very frustrated and I 
decided I needed to move on. The week that I was moving from 
D.C., I moved back to Boston, there was an event called an anti-
inauguration, which was at the same time that Richard Nixon was 
being inaugurated and it was being put on by the left. I went to that  
and I got my mind blown and radicalized and I knew I had found 
my home politically at that point.  
Raiskin:  What struck you that you agreed with so much?  
LaRosa: How they were talking about the way that our government works 
and the economic policies and why we were going into this war 
and why we shouldn't be going into this war. I was also in D.C. 
during the Poor People's March on Washington and I had some 
contact with people then and also with their— I think it was called 
The Social Welfare Workers Movement. It was a group of mostly 
black women who were organizing their communities. I had been 
involved with the black women's community as part of my job also, 
so I had gotten to know some of what their struggles were and got 
to know them as people. It was a pretty amazing experience. I was 
often the only white person in a room and it was a pretty amazing 
experience to be able to have.  
 I ended up  moving back to Boston for a little while and then I got 
called out to San Francisco. Mostly, I went out to a national 
association of social workers conference to get up on stage and tell 
them why you've got to fight, got to organize. We're not changing 
anything, got to get to work. I think the real reason I went there 
was because it was a great place to come out and I didn't realize 
that at the time. After I went there just for a visit, I turned around 
and moved there in 1969 and that was a pretty amazing year, 
politically. There was a lot going on, the women's movement was 
happening and I jumped right into all of that.   
Raiskin:  Where did you live in San Francisco?  
LaRosa: Well, I lived in Bernal Heights for a little bit and then I moved over 
to Berkeley for a while, but I only stayed in San Francisco for about 
a year and I was ready to come out, but I had to find the right 
person. One of the things that was happening is that there was a 
contingent of women from Vietnam, were coming to the United 
States. Well, actually they were coming to North America. They 
were not being allowed into the United States. They were 
organizing meetings with the Vietnamese women across Canada. 
One was going to be in Vancouver and the lesbians in San 
Francisco decided that they wanted half of that contingent to be 
lesbians. They were meeting and talking about it. I went to one of 
the meetings, it was at Sally Gearhart's house. I can see you know 
who Sally Gearhart was. I just walked into the room and there was 
this gorgeous lesbian. I probably fell in love with her like a million 
other women did. That was pretty neat.  
 I was also working on— still working on organizing social workers 
as well and so I was going to make a trip up the West Coast to talk 
to people in various cities about both organizing social workers and 
this trip to Vancouver. I landed in Portland and there was an 
incredibly vibrant lesbian community just starting to form. They 
were all awaiting my presence because I had all this information 
about this conference  happening in Vancouver, which I really 
didn't know too much, but anyway, I got to know them. One of 
them actually got interested in me and pursued me and came down  
to San Francisco. That was how I managed to come out at that 
point.  
Raiskin:  Was it a surprise to you or you knew but now you're looking for 
somebody?  
LaRosa: I knew. I was looking, but I didn't quite know how to do that. There 
was someone I was interested in, but she wasn't interested in me. 
When I look back, what happened in junior high and working with 
this group of lesbians in Washington, D.C. where I was perfectly 
comfortable and not really ever creating a substantial relationship 
with a man, it was pretty clear that's what was going on. Also, I 
had the leisure of coming out when the women's movement was so 
strong and I had a lot of company. There were a lot of other women 
that were going, “Oh, there's some alternatives here.”  
 I feel very fortunate basically that I came out when I did because 
we had such an incredible life as budding lesbians. When I moved 
to Portland, my focus became the lesbian liberation movement. I 
don't know exactly what it was called, but we were talking with 
women and organizing events and that was my passion for the 
time that I lived in Portland. I was involved in getting the women's 
bookstores started. I should be able to remember the name of it, but 
I can't.  
Raiskin:  In Portland.  
LaRosa: In Portland, yeah.  It was on Grand Avenue. I remember that. We 
also had a sort of a social service component to the bookstore for  
women who needed help with issues that were going on for them. 
There were all these women coming through playing music and all 
these events to go to. I actually moved from San Francisco with a 
group of about fifteen  or twenty  women. I was moving because I 
knew I wanted to go to Portland, but it just so happened that a lot 
of us wanted to move at the same time and I knew some of them.  
Raiskin:  Did you live with them when you came to Portland?  
LaRosa: Well, when I came to Portland, there were about twenty  of us that 
were looking for housing together and we didn't really quite know 
who was going to live with whom. We were going out looking for 
three, four and five bedroom homes to live in. Eventually, I did live 
with one of them and with the woman I came out with who'd 
already been living in Portland. That was Portland. I stayed there 
for about four years.  
Long:  What were those years?  
LaRosa: Nineteen seventy-one to 1975. One of the women that I moved 
there with is a woman who now calls herself Musawa  and she was 
the driving force behind the We’Moon calendar and still is involved 
in it. I still have a lot of real deep connections with some of the 
women I met in Portland area and one of whom moved to Cabbage 
Lane. I went down to visit her a couple of times and got kind of 
interested in what was going on there. I was kind of having a little 
bit of a health crisis and I was searching for alternative care for— 
they  didn't know what it was. Maybe it was a cyst in my ovary,  
maybe it was endometriosis, maybe it was that, they clearly didn't 
know. They just wanted to take everything out and I said, “No, 
thank you,” and went searching. At that point I said I think it's time 
to get out of Portland and move to the country.  
 I did that. I arrived there in January of  1975 and I didn't get to live 
at Cabbage Lane right away. I lived at a little place called Golden 
that is— two gay men were living there and they had this beautiful 
loft in the  barn and I got to live there. I remember one night when I 
was there, it looked  out on this beautiful field with some low hills 
and the moon was rising and I was lying there on the floor. I 
might've been a little stoned and the music was playing and I just 
remember thinking, “I could die right now. It would be fine.” That 
was one of my introductions down there. When I was in that area, 
then I finally moved  into Cabbage Lane for a couple of years and I 
lived with different women. We were a communal collective living 
together and basically learning how to survive on the land. We had 
no electricity, no running water, very basic. It was probably one of 
the best learning experiences of my life.  
Raiskin:  Were you uncomfortable?  
LaRosa: Probably on some level, but I was so excited about what I was 
doing and also it was that time in my life anyway where we were 
learning that women could do whatever we wanted. That was 
more where my focus was. Sometimes it was difficult living 
collectively. Everybody had strong opinions about what they 
wanted. We had our challenges and that part was hard. It was also  
hard figuring out how to make a living because there really wasn't 
much you could do to gain money. Sometimes we went out and cut 
wood for other people and that was a good moneymaker. One 
Christmas season, I drove a UPS truck for the Christmas holidays 
that was very lucrative.  
Raiskin:  How did you know how to do that?  
LaRosa: It's just a big truck. The hardest part was backing up because there 
were no windows, there were just mirrors.  
Long:  Where did you drive the truck? Was that in Grants Pass?  
LaRosa: I was in the Grants Pass area.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative] 
LaRosa: Yeah, I had to go into Grants Pass to start driving and I had kind of 
a rural route. I remember driving all the way to Merlin  on 
Christmas Eve and stuff. They were not too happy having a woman 
driving in 1980— no, 1978. There was some tension around that 
and the guy whose truck I was driving wasn't too happy that I was 
driving his truck.  
Raiskin:  How was it his truck if he wasn't driving it?  
LaRosa: He must have been reassigned. I don’t know what they did with 
him for that time period, but they always hire on extra drivers at 
that season. I remember that they took me out for training and— 
trained me and then let me loose and I was pretty fast and I came  
back kind of early and they were like surprised. If I had to do that 
again, I would not do that. I think they were very threatened, “Oh, 
what?” That's how you learn those things to prove that you can do 
it better than they can and they don't like that.  
Raiskin:  What did you learn at Cabbage Lane?  
LaRosa: Oh my goodness, I learned how to fend for myself, I learned how to 
build, our buildings were falling down so we had to fix them 
because winter was coming. I learned how to get water from a— 
the water was way up the hill so it was a spring, a spring-fed 
waterline, how to fix the water line, how to drive on horrible roads 
and rocky roads and build bridges and basically be self-sufficient. 
That was a lot. It was wonderful. That's where I first got to learn 
my carpentry skills. I lived there for two years and then I moved 
over to Rootworks  for two  years and eventually left Rootworks 
because it was bought by Ruth and Jean Mountaingrove, who you 
may have heard of. They—  
Long:  Could you take a moment to describe them and also who was 
living at Rootworks? Who owned the Rootworks land while you 
were living there?  
LaRosa: Well, the land was owned by a woman who lived in the 
community and I don't know that I actually ever met her, but she 
was renting the house to— or the place, to lesbians. There had been 
a string of lesbians who had lived there, I'm not sure exactly. The 
only one I remember is someone named Lauren Lightbeam who  
had a flying squirrel that walked around on her shoulder all the 
time. There were a whole stream of us that lived there for  different 
amounts of time and then she was actually wanting to sell the land. 
I helped facilitate that sale for Ruth and Jean to buy it because they 
had been living at Golden and they needed to move on.  
 I actually had originally met Ruth and Jean when I was living in 
Portland. They came to some kind of a get together in Portland and 
they were living in a mixed collective called Mountain Grove. 
That's how they got their last name. My partner and I went down 
to visit them and we took a wrong turn and we got  stuck in the 
snow and we had to call to get rescued. That's when I learned that 
when you back up, it's good to look at your side view mirror. That's 
the place to look. Another learning experience. I originally met 
them there. I'm not sure when.  
Raiskin:  What was your impression of them?  
LaRosa: Oh my goodness, they were a bit older than me. Jean is still alive 
and she's, I think about ninety, mid-nineties right now. That's 
twenty  years older than me, but I thought they were amazing 
women. They both had left their husbands and decided that they 
were lesbians fairly late in life, later in life. They had families and 
all. Jean is a fairly domineering person. She was always that way, 
but really good hearted. Ruth was much quieter and she was a 
photographer and  so she spent a lot of time with her photography 
and they eventually split up and Ruth went to  Arcata, California 
and she died a number of years ago.   
Raiskin:  Did you get into photography while you were there?  
LaRosa: Actually, I got into photography when I lived in Portland. I did 
some photography then. When I was in Portland, I had an 
opportunity to learn offset printing. I did that. I learned how to do 
all the processing for that and run a small press. Somebody had 
written a comic book about a wild Halloween party we'd had at 
our house in 1971, I think, and we decided to publish that comic 
book and also a booklet to commemorate the opening of A 
Woman's Place bookstore in Portland. That was the name of it. I 
wanted to print that. That was my job for a while, was doing offset 
printing and I also worked as a preschool teacher. Then, you could 
work half time and make enough money and do political work 
with the rest of your time. That was sort of my lifestyle at that 
point.  
Raiskin:  Why did you have to move when they bought the land? When Jean 
and Ruth bought the land.  
LaRosa: Because they really wanted people to live there who were going to 
be dedicated to the land and helping them build and create more of 
what they wanted to and I was doing— at that point, I'd started 
doing carpentry and I was trying to make a living and I didn't have 
the resources to just stay there and help them. I was sort of in a 
transition time and it was about time to move to Eugene. I'd always 
passed Eugene on the freeway and never stopped and then when I 
was living in Southern Oregon, we either went to Ashland for  
community events or Eugene. It just felt like the logical next step 
and some of my friends had already moved to Eugene.  
 I came to Eugene with two sets of skills. I had become a massage 
therapist when I lived in the country also. I would do workshops 
teaching women massage and other healing techniques and that 
was one way I made some money. I went to Seattle and Portland 
and I never really did it in Eugene. I also had learned some 
carpentry and by building the things we needed to build and I 
worked as an apprentice with a woman who was a contractor out 
at Grants Pass and some other people. Another friend taught me 
some finer woodworking skills. When I got to Eugene, it was like, 
“Do I want to be a woodworker or do I want to be a masseuse?” I 
chose woodworking. I had about a twenty-five year career as a 
woodworker and I really didn’t know that much. It's just, there 
were four of us that decided we were going to form a 
woodworking  group and we all had varying levels of expertise and 
we all went out to Lane Community College and took a class in 
cabinet building and gained a lot of skills that way.  
Raiskin:  Who were the other women?  
LaRosa: Ginger Newman, who now lives in Washington, Clary Sage Roy, 
who now lives in Southern Oregon and Deborah Shanty, and she 
lives in the Ashland area also. We worked together for a while— I 
also worked with Chris in construction when I first got here and 
did some subbing or fill-in work with them. Eventually by— let’s 
see, that was 1979. By 1983, I decided that I wanted to teach in the  
woodshop. I thought I knew a lot, but I knew a little bit. They were 
doing a one credit class for women to get an opportunity to get into 
the shop and learn how to use some of the tools.  They were 
building this really funky project so I designed another project and 
went to the coordinator and said, “I'd like to teach that class. Here's 
my project,” and she hired me. That was my first chance to teach.  
 Then, I started a class called Woodworking for the Beginner or 
Woodshop for the Beginner as an adult ed class for Lane. I did that 
for I think seventeen  years. I taught that class and  it was an 
amazing experience. I got to meet all kinds of women and a few 
men who were not so ego-involved. They could say, “I don't know 
much about woodworking.” I met, gosh, hundreds of people. I still 
run into people who say, “I took your class,” and blah, blah, blah. 
Part way through that time, I never really connected with the 
Woman's Center there for some reason because I was so busy doing 
that and trying to make a living  but, eventually, one of the women 
from the Women's Center, Jo  Bradley,  she and her son took my 
woodshop class together. They were kind of getting on board with 
trying to introduce women to  nontraditional skills and so they 
invited me to be on a panel and talk about my life as a 
woodworker.  
 Eventually, I ended up getting a part-time job with the women's 
program, encouraging women to look into nontraditional careers. I 
was a student advisor and that was part-time. I still taught and I 
still did—  
Raiskin:  Were women getting jobs in nontraditional fields or?  
LaRosa: Somewhat, but it was really limited here partially because it's not a 
big union town and so it was really slow going. People in Portland 
were doing a lot better because they had a lot of union support 
behind them. That all continued until basically— well, I stopped 
teaching in the woodshop around 1999 and then I stopped working 
in the women's program around 2008. Then there were all those 
years that I was doing other things while I was in Eugene. Kind of 
lost my train of thought. You may have heard of this before, but 
Nancy's Yogurt had those little cups of fruit that they put on top of 
their yogurt that needed to be filled and there was a team of 
lesbians who did that. I filled in once in a while making food cups.  
Long:  Why were there's so many lesbians working at Nancy's Yogurt?  
LaRosa: I'm not sure how that evolved. Somebody should talk to that. I 
think it was just filling the fruit cups because we were fruits. I don't 
know. This is far as I know that it seemed like it was mostly 
lesbians I know who did that. I suppose someone straight snuck in 
once in a while, who knows? Also, I worked for a couple of years 
making “soysage” in Eugene. It was sort of a offshoot of the 
tempeh  bi-product and that didn't last too long. While I was being a 
woodworker, I was trying to connect with other women in Eugene 
who were trades women and we had a group called Women 
Working and we met for support and networking. That was kind 
of— it was my passion there for a long time.   
 I also taught, in addition to teaching at Lane Community College 
and the woodshop, I taught at Campbell Senior Center and 
Willamalane Senior Center and the UO Craft Center. At some 
point, I had to give up. I couldn't do four shops. I couldn't figure 
out where things were supposed to go. It's like, “Oh, where am I?” 
And one of the things I did when I was working in the women's 
program is I really was passionate about letting young women 
know, girls and women know that there were other options for 
them out there. And so I was given the go ahead to do a  one day 
get together, four girls. I remember driving down the road going, 
“What am I going to call this?” How am I going to— what  is this? 
All of a sudden “Options Unlimited” popped into my head. That's 
what we called it. We had anywhere from twenty-five to thirty 
different hands-on workshops that the girls could come and do. I 
think they could do two sessions, one in the morning and one in the 
afternoon.  
Raiskin:  When would they do this in the— 
LaRosa: It would be on a Saturday. They come out and some Girl Scout 
troops organized to come to it. We had just welding and carpentry 
and painting and electronics and auto mechanics. Just a whole 
range of things in a lot of them went home with things that they 
had made and built. Then we had wonderful speakers. The first 
year— the Women Working group that I was part of, we made up a 
song and we paraded through singing the song with our gear on,  
whatever gear we were doing so that was so much fun. It was so 
much work but it was really fun.  
Long:  What years were those?  
LaRosa: I think the first one was in ‘98 is what I remember. Something like 
that and then the following two years, yeah, somewhere in the late, 
late ‘90s.  
Raiskin:  Do you know if any of the girls or women that you first train went 
on to do anything?  
LaRosa: Not really, there's a few women like Cassie Curtis, I don't know if 
you know Cassie. She has a company called Spiral Works and she 
started out as a painter and became a carpenter. I kind of mentored 
her a little bit, just informally. She and I were on the Peralandra 
Pearl  Divers together. I don't know if you've— 
Raiskin:  The softball team?  
LaRosa: The softball team. Yeah. That started in, gosh, I don't remember, 
probably the late ‘80s, somewhere mid to late ‘80s. We were 
sponsored by Peralandra bookstore, which was a New Age 
bookstore in Eugene. I played for a lot of years and one year, Cassie 
was the youngest person on the team and I was the oldest person 
on the team.  
Long:  What position did you play?   
LaRosa: Second base. I wasn't very good, but I had fun. I also sang with  
Soromundi Lesbian Chorus  of Eugene for a couple of years, which 
was a wonderful experience.  
 Somewhere in— I think it was the year 2002, there was some 
interest in starting a lesbian dance group. It was my sixtieth  
birthday party, I think I had rented the  Hilyard Community Center 
and I hired a Salsa band and invited about a hundred of my closest 
friends to come and dance and party with me. It just sort  of 
coincided with Susan Detroy  wanting to get something started 
around dancing. We started this group called Lez Dance, L-e-z 
Dance. That went on I think maybe till 2010, something like that. 
That was a lot of fun. I was part of the Kung Fu classes in the early 
1980s and that’s sort of— that's what I can remember about— 
Raiskin:  Can you remember what an average weekend day would be like 
for you during these years?  
LaRosa: Oh, my. Probably  doing all those household chores that got 
neglected during the week and maybe going out to a party or some 
music event. Also, when the weather was nice, it would involve 
getting out into the woods and camping. I got real interested in 
kayaking and did a lot of kayaking adventures.  
Raiskin:  Who were your close friends during those years?  
LaRosa: Oh boy. Well when I first moved here, Zarod who now lives in 
Portland was person. I probably knew the best and Susanna Malool 
and Peggy Quinn, none of them live in Eugene anymore. I was part  
of Baleboostehs, the Jewish lesbian group.  Some of the women from 
there— I'm still friends with Toby Finkelstein and Harriet Rubin 
and Basja who was then Joanne Samuelson. She lives in Portland 
now.  
Raiskin:  Sally and Enid?  
LaRosa: Sally and Enid were friends. I wasn't super close to them. They 
were part of that group. Oh gosh.  
Raiskin:  You didn't overlap with Enid growing up at all, did you?  
LaRosa: Yes, sort of. There's another story. Enid’s parents owned a 
delicatessen in Cleveland called Lefton’s Delicatessen and as I said, 
my mother owned the Donna Lee  Shop. One year she and a former 
partner put together  a music show and I can picture where it was. 
It's a venue that doesn't exist anymore, but it was upstairs. It had a 
beautiful wood floor. I don't know how much I had connected with 
Enid before that, but I said something to her that night. I said, “Did 
you ever shop at the Donna Lee  Shop?” She said, “Well, yeah, of 
course.” And I said, “Well, I'm Donna Lee.” She said, “You are?!” 
She just got so excited and she went running around. She found her 
partner and she said, “Remember that sweater I told you about it? 
It came from her mother's store.” So yeah, we connected and my 
mother and her aunt were in an orphanage together in Cleveland 
so they each other through that. Our families knew each other.  
Raiskin:  Did you go to the deli?   
LaRosa: Oh yeah, of course. It wasn't the closest one to the Donna Lee  Shop, 
but yeah, I went to the deli.  Another one of my friends when I was  
in Portland was a woman named Sierra Lone Pine Brianna. She 
now lives outside of Portland and she's an artist and I've stayed in 
touch with her over the years. Her partner also grew up in 
Cleveland and was Jewish and shopped at the Donna Lee  Shop. It's 
been a big part of my life. It used to be that people would call me 
on the phone if they asked for Donna Lee, I knew I knew them 
from Cleveland because nobody later knew that. How I got my 
name was, I was living at Cabbage Lane with Zarod  and my legal 
last name is Rose.  
 She started calling me La Rose one time and I liked it, but I wanted 
to name— I wanted a last name to go with it. I chose Ponderosa. I 
kind of tweaked it to be LaRosa Ponderosa. Then when I moved to 
Eugene, one of the first things I did was I was involved in a anti-
nuclear conference and it was called Women Against Nuclear 
Disarmament, which is different from— It was a different group 
than the current one and my job was to be the publicity person for 
it so I was on radio and television and I thought, LaRosa  
Ponderosa, I don't think people are going to take me seriously. I 
don't know. I think I just used the LaRosa at that point.  
Raiskin:  Was the work at Lane Community College affiliated with the 
Women in Transition program?  
LaRosa: Yes, definitely. The Women's Center housed a drop-in center and 
counselors who— student advisors who were there to help  
students. There was the library and the lounge and then the 
Women's Center ran the Women in Transition program. I always 
went into their classes to speak to— Well I would bring a panel of 
speakers in to every class for the years I worked there to share their 
experiences in  nontraditional work. That was amazing program. 
That's a shadow of its former self.  
Raiskin:  Well, it was during the recession. Right. A lot of that— Women— 
what was it called? Displaced Homemakers— 
Long:  Oh yeah, “Widowed and Displaced Homemakers.”  
LaRosa: Well, it was an extension of the Displaced Homemakers program 
and— But then I don't know when it changed its name exactly. I 
hope you can get to interview Kate Barry because she'll have a lot 
of information about that. There were programs like this in a lot of 
the schools around Oregon and they would meet with each other 
and network and all, but I was just— I did my little trip to come in 
and bring the panels in and also I did a lot— during that time,  I did 
a lot of work with the various departments on campus to get the 
men more sensitized to the issues that women would face.  
 I remember working— the guys in the welding department were 
very open and working with them and I would— they would talk 
to their beginning students, like everyone knew what a sander was 
and a this was and a  that was— and so I tried to help them 
understand that maybe some of their students weren't familiar with 
those tools and it would be nice if they could show them the tool  
and how to use it. Not just assume that they knew all that. I would 
do things like that.  
Raiskin:  Were you doing any of your social work—using any of those skills 
or doing any social work  jobs?  
LaRosa: Well, being a student advisor was pretty much being a social 
worker. I felt really fortunate that I got to kind of combine all my 
skills. The woman's program was a perfect place for me because of 
that. I was pretty fortunate.  
Raiskin:  What  were some important events that happened in Eugene while 
you were here?  
LaRosa: Well, there was those two measures trying to— I can't remember 
exactly what they were called, but that was happening— 
Raiskin:  Measure 9— 
LaRosa: Nine.  
Raiskin:  —eight, 13. 
LaRosa: Thirteen. That was pretty significant.  
Raiskin:  How did it feel to be here during that time?  
LaRosa: It was difficult there— we didn't know what was going to happen 
and also it was we found out that we had a lot more support than 
we thought we had, too. I think that was the blessing in disguise, 
but it was hard to go through that. Things have changed so  
drastically about being lesbian and gay in this country. When I was 
at LCC I actually retired around 2008. I kind of phased out because 
my mother died and then I had back surgery and I was like, “Okay, 
I think it's time to do this.” People there started using the word 
lesbian while I was still working there and I remember every time 
they do it, I would just kind of— my stomach would just kind of 
seize  up a little bit and then I got used to it.  
Raiskin:  Were you closeted, would you work there?  
LaRosa: No, no, no. Ever since I got to Portland and I was very much into 
being out, I wasn't stupid about it, but was not closeted. I did not 
have to live that kind of lifestyle, which I feel very grateful for. I 
have a ninety-six year old friend who has a lot of stories about how 
she had to live that lifestyle. So yeah, I came out at a really good 
time. I'm sure there's a lot more that I could tell you right now.  
Raiskin:  What were your partner situations?  
LaRosa: Well, I had a few relationships but they were short and sporadic. 
Then about seven years ago I met somebody and I've been in a 
relationship with her for seven years so, later in life. Another thing 
that I did— I had a friend named  Kendra and in 1980 Kendra had— 
’82, Kendra had a baby and I would ride my bicycle by her house, 
“Did you have the baby yet? No. Do you have the baby? No.” One 
morning she called me up and she was chatting with me and then 
finally she said, “Well, I had the baby last night” and said, “Oh, 
thanks for telling me.” I went over when McKenna was three days  
old and fell in love with her and said, “I'd really like to be in this 
child's life. I'd like to be her grandma and help take care of her.”  
 Kendra was the one who said, “Well, I think my mother might be a 
little offended with that, but how— why don't you be her Bubbie,” 
which is Yiddish for grandma. I'm McKenna's Bubbie and she's 
now thirty-six years old and has two children, two little girls. I'm 
an Elta Bubbie. That was wonderful. I always thought I was going 
to go back to southern Oregon but when I got involved with 
McKenna here, I was. I was really busy during those years. There's 
this trying to establish a business and I really didn't know what I 
was doing a lot of the time. I just kind of stayed one step ahead and 
learned what I needed to learn and teaching was wonderful 
because I learned a lot by teaching other people.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel sustained by the lesbian community here? 
LaRosa: Pretty much, I think. Yeah. Most of the work I did was for lesbians. 
I built furniture and fixtures for apparel, Peralandra Bookstore and 
Mother Kali’s and probably a couple of other places and then beds 
and cabinets and  dressers. I was kind of the go-to person. I'm sure 
they went to other people, too. 
Raiskin:  Did you feel— were  there any conflicts in the community or things 
that you just didn't feel comfortable with?  
LaRosa: Oh, I'm sure there were, but I probably chose to forget them. Well 
there was— the first thing that comes to mind was class issues that  
we needed to talk about and discuss and that sometimes drove a 
wedge between people.  
Raiskin:  How did people talk about that?  
LaRosa: Well, I think that there were probably some— I can't remember 
specifically, but there were probably some opportunities at 
conferences or workshops to talk about those issues. Sometimes 
people would try to address it directly with other people, but it was 
a very sensitive topic, was always hard for people to talk about 
money issues.  
Raiskin:  The nature of the work was so collective and seemed maybe people 
wanted to seem like they're at the same economic status, even 
though there were differences.  
LaRosa: Yeah. There were a lot of collectives in town too. Starflower being 
one of the biggest ones and that was mostly lesbians. We were 
definitely part of this community, very strong part of it.  
Raiskin:  Have you and your partner gotten married?  
LaRosa: No, we decided not to get married for a number of reasons. One is 
that she had been married twice to a man and didn't want to 
have— the idea of marriage was not comfortable to her. I really 
understand and appreciate how important it is that same sex 
couples can get married and how that's really helped to integrate us 
in some ways into the society and that other people can understand 
us a little better cause we're talking their language somehow. First  
of all, when I came out, I never thought it was the furthest thing 
from my mind was to get married. Also, marriage as an institution 
in this country pretty much sucks. It was not advantageous to us 
economically— really  to do that. We had a commitment ceremony. 
I think it's wonderful. I love it that so many women have gotten 
married and they call each other wife and some people don't like 
that. But you know, I've learned that some people I'd never thought 
would be a lesbian are lesbians because they mentioned their wife, 
so— 
Raiskin:  It makes it visible.  
LaRosa: Yeah, It's a good shorthand. It’s a mixed thing because I also came 
out— I cut my teeth on being a lesbian rebel and we were doing 
something different and we were creating a new lifestyle and all of 
our wildest hopes and dreams that we were creating better ways to 
live together. Maybe we have a little bit but, and so to then move 
into the status quo was just sort of rubbed me a little bit against the 
grain because I always saw myself as a rebel being a lesbian 
activist.  
Raiskin:  Do you feel that there's been a movement towards assimilation 
because of marriage?  
LaRosa: To some extent, yeah. I also saw it as a Jew. The assimilation that 
happens as a Jew and then you sort of— in any cultural 
assimilation you kind of— then  you have to work really hard to 
maintain your culture.   
Raiskin:  What did it feel like being a Jew in Eugene?  
LaRosa: I always felt fairly comfortable as a Jew in Eugene. I'm not real 
active in the Temple, but I go to— I've gone to the Temple ever 
since I've been and right now I— the rabbi is fabulous and we're 
welcomed there. A lot of other women have done a lot of work to 
get the gay havara together— that gay group together. Right now it 
feels like definitely a welcoming place.  
Raiskin:  Is there any experience or aspect we haven't asked you about your 
time here?  
LaRosa: Oh, probably there is but— 
Raiskin:  Or do you want to make sure it gets noticed?  
LaRosa: I think I pretty much covered a lot of what I've done here. I'm now 
living here part-time because I go to Tucson in the winter. My 
partner cannot live here in the rain and cold for health reasons. She 
grew up in Arizona, so she really feels more connected there. I 
really miss Eugene a lot, so I'm kind of working on how can I be 
here a little bit more than— every  year it's a little different for 
various reasons. This is my home. I've been here since ‘79 and this 
is my community and it's wonderful being in the warm weather, 
but I'm not around people I've known, especially women I've 
known for fifty years.  
Raiskin:  That's very rich.   
LaRosa: It is incredibly. Almost every time I go out to do anything, I run 
into people that I have some sort of connection with and it feeds 
me. 
Raiskin:  You've made a deep investment in the community, so that's what 
you get. People know you.  
LaRosa: Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you know about the lesbian, I don't know what you call it— 
Retirement community in Arizona?  
LaRosa: Yes. Apache Junction. Yeah. I've been there. It's wonderful in a lot 
of ways. They have a lot of wonderful activities. There's two 
different communities now and I have a few friends who live there 
and I visited a couple of times.  
Raiskin:  What's it like?  
LaRosa: It's a very homogeneous community, so I think we've seen one 
black person there. Economically it's more of upper middle class 
community and it's— there's not a lot of diversity obviously, what 
I'm saying, and it's— to me the word I use is sterile. Everybody 
lives in either— usually  it's what's called a park model. It's kind of 
like a mobile home, but there's a slight  difference tax-wise about it. 
Some people live in their rigs, in their large motor homes but 
everything's very neat and clean and tidy and the streets— it's 
changing some because it was originally started— the first one was 
originally started by women in the military. They had some very  
strict to rules and even up to the pebbles and your yard have to 
be— 
Raiskin:  Lesbian women in the military or just women?  
LaRosa: Lesbian women in the military. It was great that they were able to 
do that after they retired, but there's younger women who are 
starting to live there and have more influence on some of the 
policies. I'm just a little too— I'd love to live somewhere like that, 
that had all that support and all the classes and activities and things 
to do but I would get bored too quickly. It's a nice place to visit.  
Raiskin:  What would be your ideal living situation as you age?  
LaRosa: Oh gosh. I would love to live someplace like that, that's got a little 
more character to it and a little more diversity and— there’s  so 
many different scenarios. Sometimes I think I love to live in an 
apartment where there's a number of other apartments sort of right 
in the same loop. We had our own places, but we got to connect. 
Maybe we'd have a community center or something like that. I 
have a friend who lives in the Eugene Hotel and she loves it and 
there's a lot of wonderful things about it, but there's no green place 
to go sit in the yard so that, that would be important to me. I'd love 
some kind of collective community living situation and I'm not 
quite sure how we're going to get there.  
Raiskin:  You'd like it to be in Eugene?   
LaRosa: I'll tell you more about that after I spend a winter here again, I don't 
know if my body— how my body's going to do here, so I'm kind of 
instrans— another transition place of can I tolerate the weather 
here or not? If not, certainly can't tolerate the weather in Tucson in 
the summer. Going back and forth is okay, but it's getting— I can 
see the future that is not sustainable, at least in the way we're doing 
it. Driving back and forth is— it's a long ride. My partner is eighty-
two and I'm seventy-six so— 
Raiskin:  Has your partner been in Eugene all these years?  
LaRosa: She lived in outside of Portland near Mount Hood for thirty  years 
and then she moved to Cottage Grove for about fifteen  years.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet her?  
LaRosa: Oh, there was another thing I did— RVing Women. You know 
about this group? It's a group called RVing Women. They were 
actually sort of involved with Apache Junction. I'm not sure the 
connection, but I think they helped start that. It's a national group 
of women who have RVs and travel in them in various ways. 
There's a number of states that have their own chapters. I went to a 
few of their rallies and that's where  I met Jo Beth. She was a— 
Raiskin:  What's your rig like?  
LaRosa: Well, the rig I had then was a Toyota truck with a camper built on 
it and the chassis was Toyota. It's called a multi-mini motor home 
and there's a lot of— if you look closely you can see them around  
town. The front looks like a Toyota pickup truck and then the back, 
there's a cab over the chassis and they're made by Dolphin or 
Winnebago or Itasca. There's a couple other companies that made 
the coach, what we call the coach. I drove that for a while  and then 
I traded it in for Rialta, which is a more of a oversize van. Both of 
my motor homes had been very small.  
Raiskin:  They sleep one or two?  
LaRosa: Well, the Rialta only has one bed, so it's just one or two. The Toyota 
had a place for three  separate sleeping areas. That'd be a little tight 
when all three were being used. The couch broke down to a bed 
and the table broke down to a bed and then there was a cab, a place 
to sleep above the cab that kind of had that crunch like that 
[gestures] because it wasn't very tall.  
Raiskin:  You drive all around in these?  
LaRosa: Some people do. Yeah. Well, mostly I've driven just as a way to 
camp because I got to the place where it was too hard to put the 
tent up and crawl in and get out and all that. We’d drive it back 
and forth to Arizona and sometimes do a road trip. I've never been 
what they call a full-timer. There's a lot of them out there. And 
these rallies, women get together in the rallies with their rigs and 
sometimes they plan a road trip together and the group will go off 
together and so it's a way— they also have the opportunity to learn 
things, so sometimes they'll invite speakers to their rallies. When I 
was working at Lane Community College, there was a RV  
maintenance program there and the guy who ran that would invite 
them or arranged with the group in Oregon to come there and to 
learn about different systems in the rigs and help them out that 
way.  It's a pretty neat group, really.  
Raiskin:  I know you've worked with students  for much of your life, but 
we've been asking people at the end of the interviews, if you have 
any advice to a young person who might be watching your 
interview.  
LaRosa: Oh, my goodness. Be open to where life takes you, because you 
never know where you're going to end up.  
Raiskin:  That's good advice.  
LaRosa: Yeah. Thanks for asking that question. I had no idea what my life 
was going to be like. It was not what I was supposed to do and 
much to my mother's distress, but I managed to get through that.  
Raiskin:  Well, thank you for everything you've contributed to Eugene, too.  
Long:  Thank you.  
LaRosa: Well, thank you for the opportunity to do this.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  