 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Rakar  West on Monday, August 
27, 2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
technologies. The interviewers are Linda long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the University of Oregon Libraries’  Special 
Collections and University Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin 
of the UO Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. 
Rakar, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
West:  Yes, I do.  
Long:  Great. Thank you. Let's just start with a basic question. Can you tell 
us when and where you were born?  
West:  Yes. I was born in Atlanta, Georgia on December 7, 1939. And I 
grew up in Decatur, Georgia, which was an outlying  community 
then. It's more of a big part of the suburban Atlanta now. So there.  
Raiskin:  And can you tell something about your family?  
West:  Oh, let's see. My parents were real into music and art. My father 
painted a little bit. My mother was a piano teacher and a music 
theory teacher. And my sister was seven years older than I was. So 
we had kind of real different childhoods and relationships with our 
parents. And we didn't really have a lot of money, but it was an old 
Southern family. Manners and appearances, and all those Southern 
traditions were important in the family. And but as I say, we didn't 
have a whole lot of money to do extra things with, as I was 
growing up.  
Long:  Did those Southern traditions affect your feelings about yourself 
and how you might have been in contradiction to  some of those 
traditions?  
West:  Oh, always because  as I grew up, I was quite the tomboy. I liked to 
climb trees. I liked to run around, play ball. And the neighborhood 
was full of little boys that I played with. My sister was just the 
opposite. She was the traditional girly girl, I guess. And so I— yes, I  
was the anomaly in the family. But it didn't really— I always knew 
that I was loved and taken care of and important and I think that 
they just wished— I don't think I got this from my father but my 
mother, I know she wished my behavior would be different. She 
wanted me to play with the little girls and dolls and things and I 
just didn't want any part of it.  
Long:  How did she try to convince you to do that?  
West:  Oh, just talking to me all the time.  
Raiskin: Was your family religious?  
West:  No, I wouldn't say so. When I was in college, I went to church. A 
good bit, often, but I think it was more for social reasons, than for 
religious reasons. So I would say no. My mother was raised in a 
Southern Baptist family. Not the Southern Baptist religious group, 
but Baptist I should say it that way, I guess. She was raised in the 
religion. My father was not. But it wasn't really forced upon us at 
all. Or, it wasn't  encouraged that much. It was just what we wanted 
to do, I guess.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a sense of your sexuality? In middle school or high 
school?  
West:  Well, yes. And before then I know when I was little, maybe five 
years old or something I know I was— my little fantasies were 
about girls. And in high school, I just wanted to fit in, so I had 
boyfriends and I dated. In college the same thing but I came out  
late. I came out when I was thirty-five years  old. This was 1975. 
And so by then I certainly had the knowledge of that. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember negative ideas about lesbianism or 
homosexuality?  
West:  Well, they were all around me, but I didn't have any.  
Raiskin:  And how did you choose where to go to college?  
West:  Well, like I say, we weren't very— we didn't have money. And so I 
went to Agnes Scott College, which was in Decatur, Georgia. I lived 
at home the whole time I was in college. And part of the time when 
I was in graduate school at Emory University in Atlanta, I lived at 
home part of that time and part of the time I had an apartment with 
a couple of friends and that  was great.  
Raiskin:  What did you study in college?  
West:  Chemistry. I should have studied art. But I got off track there 
because a lot of my friends in high school were studying sciences. 
And so I went that way. I majored in chemistry and then I went to 
graduate school in chemistry. So, 1975 when I came out, and one 
thing about the South are the attitudes that I really didn't find that I 
agreed with. A lot of racism and a lot of just criticism and sticking 
to what was expected of you. Of course, by then I was not doing 
that in any way.  
 I was trying to get out of that. So when I moved Oregon, I just 
wanted to get as far away from the South as I could. And so that's  
what I did. I had visited some friends who lived in Oregon a couple 
of times and I really liked Oregon. I just thought it was the most 
beautiful place and some people when they go back to where they 
grew up, they say, "Oh, I feel my roots. I just feel so at home there." 
I never felt that there. But when I came to Oregon, I just felt like, 
“This is my home.” I felt like I had finally found what they referred 
to as roots. But it was the landscape and just— Oregon is just so 
beautiful.  
Long:  Can we go back for a second to— so you're in graduate school at 
Emory.  
West:  Yes.  
Long:  And when did you get your— did you get a masters degree?  
West:  I did. No, it was— 
Long:  What year was that?  
West:  I think it was 1965 but I'm can't remember. I went straight from 
college and I graduated in 1961. I went to graduate school. But I 
didn't finish my thesis for a  couple of years after that. I kind of 
dragged my heels and then I finally, finally got it done. And I think 
it was 1965 by then.  
Raiskin:  Was there a job you had in mind that you wanted to use chemistry 
for? 
West:  No.   
Raiskin:  Can you tell us a little about coming out at that time?  
West:  Well, what do you want to know?  
Raiskin:  Well, how did you know that you were lesbian?  
West:  Well, okay. I went to art school by then, and I went back to 
undergraduate school in St. Louis. I forgot to write this down as a 
school that I went to, but Webster College. It's now Webster 
University in St. Louis. And I went to art school there and had a 
very close group of three or four friends, three other friends 
basically, that I painted with and we hung out together all the time. 
And so actually, years later, one of those friends and I came out 
together.  
Long:  So you came out in St. Louis?  
West:  No. It was, I don't know, we had a long distance relationship for a 
while. And it was brief. Because of being long distance it wouldn't 
survive. But no, she lived in St. Louis and I lived— I think I was 
living in South Carolina by then. But anyway, I want to get to— 
Long:  Oregon?  
West:  Get to Oregon. I want to get to the ‘70s. 
Raiskin:  So you came to Oregon and your friends were any of them living in 
Eugene? When you were visiting your friends in Oregon, were any 
of them in Eugene?   
West:  No, they lived up in Corvallis. I when I  first came into Oregon, I 
stayed with them in Corvallis. And that was in November of ‘76. 
And then, but I knew there was a lesbian community in Eugene so I 
would come down to Eugene. I'd go to the Riv Room, the Riviera 
Room— the gay bar, and visit with my friends. And I had a 
girlfriend  by then down here. And, so then in February I moved to 
Eugene of ‘77. That's when I actually came to Eugene.  
Raiskin:  And where were you living when you came here?  
West:  Let's see, I shared a duplex with Kate. And we weren't lovers but 
we were friends and we got along great and she was looking for a 
roommate and so we had one half of a duplex and it's been 
demolished  now but it was over near the old library in Eugene. 
And so then, in 1978, she and I decided we should look for a house. 
So we did that. We found the house that I still live in now. And I 
bought with her that house in 1978, April I think. And then it took 
me a couple of years to find Lina. She was known as  Gypsy then. 
And she—Kate moved out eventually and Lina moved in in ‘78 or 
‘79. 
Raiskin:  And you've been together how long now?  
West:  Forty-plus years. We just had our fortieth  anniversary of being 
together this year. And it's the same little house that we live in. It's 
great. I could go on and on about our little cute little house.  
Raiskin:  Why is it so great, the house?   
West:  Oh, we just remodeled it twice. It's one of those little Craftsman 
bungalow houses was built in 1923. It has all this great the window 
trim with the back band and all that and classic style. And we just 
love it, that's what attracted me to the house in the first place. And 
we've remodeled it twice and kept that same style and had— when 
we made changes, we kept the trim style and in the kitchen we 
remodeled the kitchen we kept the old like a 19— upgraded, 
though, and improved but the style of that era. And it's just gives 
us so much pleasure that we've been able to accomplish that and it 
looks so cute.  
Long:  I'm curious about the economics of purchasing a house. Was 
housing affordable at that time?  
West:  Well, I had this job at Starflower, so I had gainful employment. And 
I bought the house for $30,800 in 1978. And so, Kate and I did have 
difficulty getting a loan together. Because we weren't married, we 
weren't a heterosexual— this is my take on it; the bank might say 
something else. And she didn't really have a steady employment. 
She had different jobs and I don't know if she was self-employed  as 
a window washer by then. But anyway, it was difficult. So we were 
turned down the first time around and then, excuse me, I reapplied 
for the loan by myself with my— just my information and I was 
able to get the loan for the house. But everything's relative, back 
then that was, I wouldn't say it was cheap, and it wasn't a struggle 
to pay, but it was average probably for that kind of house. The 
house was originally about 900 square feet. It was one of those little  
boxes, two bedroom one bath houses and now it's about 1,450 or 
something.  
Raiskin:  It was hard for women to  get credit and those days.   
West:  Pardon?  
Raiskin:  It was difficult for women to get credit.  
West:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Tell us about Starflower. What you did there, what it was like.  
West:  Okay, well, I was riding by Starflower one day on my bicycle. This 
was when it was on Lawrence Street there. Near the REI complex, 
which was at that time was the planing mill, Eugene Planing Mill. 
And so anyways, I was riding by on my bicycle, and these women 
said, "Hey, we need some help you want to work?" And I said, 
"Sure." I got off my bicycle and did some temporary work for them. 
I was just hired on as a temp and then I did that pretty regularly for 
a while and then they wanted to hire, do some hiring. Then I 
applied to actually become part of the collective and I was hired as 
a purchasing agent. And Shoshana  was a member of the collective 
then.  
 She was a purchasing agent. Barbara Bones was another 
purchasing agent. And I think Jessie and I were hired at the same 
time. And Jessie, I think ended up being a purchasing agent, too. 
Barbara, Shoshana and Jessie and I were purchasers. It could have 
been somebody else. But anyway, Starflower  wasn't— it was a  
collective. And it was largely women, largely lesbian, but not 
entirely. Margaret's brother, a heterosexual man worked there as a 
trucker. And other folks, there were some straight women who 
worked there. And there was an adjunct, I guess, some kind of 
loose relationship between the natural foods warehouse and the 
herb company. There was the herb company and Margaret's ex 
Tom and his boyfriend Joe, they ran the herb company. So there 
were those guys. And there were a number of guys that worked 
from time to time. But largely it was lesbians.  
 And when you first went to work there, you had  to work in that 
warehouse. You got to know what was in there and how that went. 
And that was the hub of packing up food that people had ordered, 
and loading the trucks up and doing inventory and I can't 
remember how many people were in the collective then. I'd say 
maybe twenty, maybe more, I'm  not sure. But, I was a bean and 
flour  purchaser, and pasta. I got to visit all these like bean fields 
and growers, and rice was another one. And the pasta 
manufacturer in San Francisco and learn about the food. It was 
fascinating really and Starflower  was like at the forefront of the 
organic food movement back then.  
 They were just— I remember we were just coming up with 
guidelines of what was organic, and Oregon didn't have that much 
going on about organic. But California did and so we sort of 
followed the California guidelines of what was organic. And we 
had to have our growers go through a plan to eliminate chemicals  
from their property. From their  farmlands for quite a while before 
they were granted the certificate of being  considered an organic 
grower.  
Raiskin:  Did your chemistry background help you at all in this job?  
West:  No. No. It helps me read the labels on the things in the store. But a 
lot of times, you know, those aren't real chemical names. They're 
made-up names like all the drug names are just— they're not real 
chemical names. But I don't know if it's ever helped me anyway, 
I— probably  not. 
Raiskin:  So you got to travel to California and where were the bean fields 
and the rice fields?  
West:  Well, the fields that I bought from were in  Idaho, Posey Family 
Farm. And we went over there and visited with them. There were 
several of us  that went on different road trips to have such fun. 
Besides learning about the food, the whole experience was 
amazing.  
Long:  Did, excuse me, did Starflower  have a fleet of cars to use for that 
kind of travel?  
West:  Let's see. Not cars. No, they did own trucks. We have the trucks but 
the cars I'm not sure I think we just used someone's car and maybe 
we rented a car. I don't remember about where the cars came from. 
The bean fields were in Idaho. The wheat fields were in Utah, 
Wheatland. The rice fields were in Northern California and  
Lundberg Family Farms was the grower that we bought from. 
They're still around, of course. And pasta was manufactured in San 
Francisco. I can't remember the name of the pasta manufacturer but 
they're still in business.  
Raiskin:  How was it for the lesbians from Starflower  to talk with the 
farmers?  
West:  They were great. I mean, we were buying their products. But no, I 
think they were great. They were very— as they seemed very open 
minded. Even in Utah, the guy we bought wheat  from was a 
Mormon  and his family— we stayed with— I don't think we stayed 
with his family, we had dinner with him and all, but he was fine, 
and he would come up to the warehouse and we had visits from 
these folks. As well as going to their place, they would come, come 
up and— 
Raiskin:  I wonder what they thought of it? 
West:  Well, they seemed quite open to us as people. And so it seemed like 
it went along okay. I can't really say I had a conversation with any 
of them about, what do you think of us lesbians? I can't really 
answer what they thought about it.  
Long:  Now I have a question about where you got the product. So you 
had to go outside of Oregon because, why?  
West:  Well, I guess I don't know, there wasn't a large supply of beans 
being grown in Oregon. There was wheat and we did buy some  
wheat from Oregon growers. And pasta, I don't think there was a 
pasta manufacturer. I mean, we had to go where these things were  
located where we want to buy. In fact, I bought soy beans from 
somebody over in, say, Arkansas or somewhere like that. Lot of 
phone work and I never did visit that farm. Just too far away. But 
one fellow I bought popcorn from was in the Midwest where they 
grow good corn. He decided since he was selling us so much 
popcorn, he would move to Oregon and grow popcorn. That was a 
big disaster. Because popcorn, you have to have a certain moisture 
content, has to be harvested a certain time. The rain out here is too 
unpredictable, too wet or it's too dry or so he really— I think he's a 
financial advisor now. Anyway, he was nice fella. But it didn't 
work out to grow certain things in Oregon, so we had to buy them 
from elsewhere.  
 But after a while, I was drawn to the trucking team and I thought, 
well, I should— I’ve always  wanted to drive trucks. So, I became a 
member of the trucking team. I don't think the purchasing team 
really wanted that to happen. But they— in Starflower, you could 
do whatever you wanted to do. And we had people who wanted to 
work in the warehouse who were really small and not very 
muscular and you need muscle to work in the warehouse. But they 
wanted to work in the warehouse so they worked in the 
warehouse. They agreed that I would go to the trucking team and I 
did drive the vans.  The big vans were just a natural for me to pick 
up how to drive them. And then the semis, we had a twenty-seven- 
foot trailer on one of the rigs and then we had the forty-foot trailer 
on the other rigs.  
 And I never got very good at driving the forty-foot trailer. I was 
not— would have taken a lot more. But I drove the twenty-seven  
foot trailer sometimes and I was not really very good at it. Because I 
didn't stay there long enough. The meetings got to me. After three 
years I just couldn't stand going to any more meetings. We had 
meetings all the time and they just seemed— the thing was, all the 
decisions about everything were made by consensus. That means 
everybody had to agree. And this is an excruciating process. And 
some of the decisions— finally, they realize that some of these 
decisions should be made in a smaller, smaller group. That did 
start to happen.  
 But anyway, I was also burned out. Lina  and I were drawn to the 
coast.  I left Starflower  in August of 1980. And we moved out to the 
coast and we lived up and down the coast for about four years and 
then we moved back in 1984. In October, we moved back to 
Eugene, and back into our little house, which we had been renting 
out while we were gone. And I guess that our little house had 
become like a lesbian hotel while we were gone. We came back and 
the neighbors were like, "Oh, we're so glad to see you welcome  
back." But the house was intact, the plumbing was fine, and I guess 
there were like lots of somebody had parked an RV in our 
driveway and lived in that, plugged into the house current for six  
months or something. We found all this out when we came back. I 
mean, we were like hands-off landladies.  
 So that was nice to move back, though. The other thing about 
Starflower  was it was like big  in the drug days. There was a lot of 
drug use. I never was one to use drugs other than alcohol. And so I 
was really not part of the drug scene or drug— not that I was 
ostracized or anything but  I just wasn't, I didn't like that, I didn't 
like that.  
Long:  Can you describe what the drug scene was like in the lesbian 
community?  
West:  Well, you probably get somebody who was in it, to really describe 
it. But from the outside looking in— I'm a really responsible 
person. And I like being in control of things and that's the thing 
about drugs and the chemistry. I didn't want to do that to my body 
because, the body is all organic matter. But I felt like people made 
bad decisions, they fooled around, they didn't— They did their jobs 
and they worked but it wasn't as, I'm looking for a word but I don't 
know, it wasn't as pleasant or as like efficient business like, I guess 
as far as I was concerned. But I don't think that really was a 
detriment to the business. In the long run, I think— 
Raiskin:  Did people ever not show up in the morning or do things wrong?  
West:  They would show up. I don't remember anybody doing anything 
wrong, really. But so it just was a personal  judgment I guess on my 
part.   
Long:  Would you go to the  Riv Room  those days?  
West:  Oh, yeah, yeah. But one other thing let me go back to Starflower. 
One of the things that was so satisfying about Starflower  was 
delivering all this great food, high quality food to all these 
locations. And the  trucks went to— they went all around they went 
to Boise, Idaho, they went to San Francisco and they went to John 
Day, they went all over Oregon, they went to up the gorge and 
across to between John Day and Boise. We just went everywhere up 
and down the coast, there were little buying clubs or co-ops that we 
delivered food to. And people were always so happy to see us and 
we love seeing them and they loved our food and the food was 
very good quality. And at that point, we could take a draw of any 
kind of food in the warehouse that we needed or wanted.  
 They would put things on draw, like a box of pasta or wheel of 
Jarlsberg cheese, or something. A bag of flour and you could just go 
get what you needed.  
Raiskin:  Was there any limit on how much you could take?  
West:  I don't remember there being a limit on those. The cheese was kind 
of rationed out it wasn't— you couldn't just go into the cheese 
cooler and get what you wanted. The cheese buyer had to put 
something on draw and that was because of the inventory and if 
there was a lot of something, then she knew that she wasn't going 
to run out for the customers then that would go on draw. That's the 
only thing I remember being limited at all, was the cheese. And  
cheese was pretty expensive. I think that was the most expensive I 
think product that we had. We had Nancy's Yogurt, we would go 
into the Creamery, which  was located in Springfield that time, the 
Springfield Creamery. So— what  did you ask me about?  
Long:  Well, actually, now that you're talking about Starflower  again, I'm 
wondering, do you recall what your hourly wage was when you 
were working there?  
West:  No, but I think the monthly— everybody got paid the same wage. I 
think the amount I remember was $650 or something a month. But 
with all that free food, you know—and it was 1978 to ‘80.  
Raiskin:  And everybody got paid the same regardless of the level of 
responsibility.  
West:  Mm-hmm  [affirmative] That was— Starflower  purchased a second 
warehouse. The old warehouse was on Laurence Street  there, were 
I said. And then in 19— I think it might have been 1980, ‘79 or ‘80, 
they purchased a warehouse over on McKinley in Eugene. And we 
had to redo parts of it. Like I remember Margaret was an electrician 
and she rebuilt the cooler, a big huge walk-in cooler. And she wired 
that whole cooler because she was an electrician and could do it. 
She got some folks to help her a little bit but, we did everything. In 
fact, speaking of trucks, no one was really— we finally hired a 
woman who had been to Diesel school, trained as a truck driver. 
Nobody else had been, I mean, we were driving these huge rigs. 
And weren't really— no one had been to truck driving school,  
except this one woman she had. She didn't stay  long because she 
realized that  she had learned certain ways to do things about the 
trucks and we were like— whatever.  
 But that was— we just, we were reinventing our lives. Everything. 
Lina and I were talking about this the other day and we just 
reinvented everything about how to be and how to work and what 
to do. And if you wanted to fix something, you just figured out 
how to fix it. I like fixing things still. So, when we moved into the 
new warehouse, the division of labor changed a little bit because 
certain committees were set up to manage certain parts of the 
move, because this was a big deal moving all this food and all these 
people and all and getting the warehouse remodeled and 
everything and to manage all of that. So I was put in charge of the 
physical move of the warehouse contents to the new warehouse. 
And so I was over there checking on the warehouse and how it was 
going with the remodel and everything. Of course we had hired 
Crescent Construction to do the remodel. And Lina was part of 
Crescent Construction.  
 And we had met each other a couple of times, a few times over the 
last two years and bumped into each other but we hadn't really 
gotten together as a couple yet. So, I knew her and I went over to 
the warehouse and she was working right there in the entryway 
with her dog Leafy Greens. And I walked in there and Leafy looked 
a lot like my old dog Tony  that I had when I was a kid. And so I 
just passed by this  beautiful woman who was working there. And I  
looked at Leafy and I said, "Who is this?" And Lina said, "Well, this 
is Leafy Greens." And by that time, Leafy and I were just like this  
[gestures]. And so that really, I think that got me a lot of points 
with  Lina at that point.  
 The other connection that she and I had was, we were in the same 
karate class. And we studied karate with Rena Klein. And she was 
also one of the head folks in Crescent Construction. But she was a 
black belt. She was about five feet tall. So was this pure muscle. She 
was an excellent martial arts teacher and martial artist. She was an 
architect. And she and Susan Baker I think were architects that 
started Crescent Construction. Anyhow , Lina and I were taking 
karate class together and that's when we finally started dating and 
becoming involved with each other. So, let's say the Starflower  
connection, the Leafy Greens connection, the Crescent 
Construction, the karate class, it all was like weaving together in 
my life about that time.  
Long:  Would you mind taking a moment just to give us a description of 
what a typical day might have been working at Starflower  and then 
your personal activities?  
West:  Okay, yeah, I of course would get up in the morning go to work. I'd 
be there about 8:00 or 8:30. I'd drink a whole pot of coffee which I 
still do. Work all morning, be on the phone a lot. And that's when I 
just still, I can't stand answering the phone, I'll let it ring and I see 
who  it is. But that really— it's being on the phone, you had to call 
people all the time, they were calling you, and. All that would be  
the morning, then we go to lunch, we'd have lunch at Gertrude’s 
Café. I mean, there was a whole, just a whole community of 
resources  in Eugene at that time, it was really quite, quite amazing 
to be a lesbian or gay person in Eugene, at that time. So we'd go 
and there was Gertrude’s  which was a collective for a while and 
then when that folded a few women purchased the business and it 
was at Wild Iris  Café. And so we would have lunch there. It was on 
Lincoln Street between I don't remember, Tenth  and Eleventh  or 
something like that.  
 And so we’d go to lunch and an hour later, we'd go back to work 
and work till five, six o'clock.  I was one of those people that would 
really didn't go home after eight hours. Some folks did, they had 
very strict working eight hours, and that's it. And they would get 
their work done and they would leave. And the rest of us were 
kind of resentful of that because we were still there working away 
and they would get up and leave. But it's work. It makes a lot more 
sense now. Then I'd go home, I'd have dinner, I'd cook  dinner or go 
out to dinner. And then later in the evening, we might go over to 
the Riv Room, dance and drink beer and chit chat for a couple 
hours go home by like midnight. Or we’d go to karate class in the 
evening and then we'd maybe after karate class we'd go to the Riv 
Room  or we— I remember eating breakfast at Hoots, which was an 
all-night  diner and it was up somewhere near where the current 
federal courthouse is now, the big cannery thing.   
 But, and that would be like three in the morning would be 
breakfast. And I'm not sure why we were maybe— Oh, the Riv 
Room  closed at two. Then we go eat  breakfast at Hoots. And that 
was like huevos rancheros  type— lots of salsa. Then we go home 
and sleep a little bit and go back to work. That was typical I guess.  
Raiskin:  Were you hanging out with basically the same people most days?  
West:  Oh, I guess so. We had a large circle of friends— people that you 
worked with, people that you did your martial arts with. Or your 
writing group or something, your book club. I didn't do writing 
and I didn't do a book club but I think those things existed 
somewhere along the way.  
Raiskin:  What about  softball? 
West:  Oh, yeah. I was a member of the Peralandra. That was a privately 
owned bookstore, a woman-owned bookstore and it was largely a 
bookstore about spiritual stuff. And she sponsored our softball 
team the Peralandra Pearl Divers. So yeah, I was a member of the 
Peralandra Pearl Divers . I was a second base one for a while, then I 
was a first base one for a while. And I wasn't really— I never hit a 
home run. But I got a lot of hits. And I wasn't a fast runner. I would 
be running around the bases and people would be yelling, “Rakar  
run, run!” I'd be, “I am running!”  I was  not a fast runner. We had a 
lot of fun there, too. And then after the games we would go to 
Tino’s. It was an Italian restaurant, up on the corner of Willamette 
and Fifteenth. And we would have pizza and beer and talk about  
the game and eventually go home and go to sleep or something. 
But one year our team did  win the trophy. I got you some 
photographs of some of that.  
 But yeah, we had a sort of a base  number of team members that 
were there every year and then the coach was consistent. T Ride 
was our coach. But new people came and went off and on from 
time to time. I think I started playing softball when I was forty-two 
years old. And I played for about  ten years and then I quit. And my 
hero now is Diane because she is still playing softball. And she's, I 
don't know how old Diane is, but she's way up here. She's not as 
old as I am. But anyway, it's pretty, pretty admirable and amazing. 
I think she plays on a coed team now. So yeah, that was a really big 
part of our lives too, was softball. And the practices on Saturday 
morning and that was hard getting up and getting to practice and 
early Saturday morning, but we managed to do it.  
Long:  Can you think back  to any conflicts that might have arisen in the 
community?  
West:  Well, let's see. Nothing really comes to mind right now. I know 
there were people that didn't get along. And there were some fights 
in the warehouse sometimes. But I really can't think of anything 
that affected me or that I knew about that was a big conflict.  
Raiskin:  Was it unusual that you and Lina were a couple so long?  
West:  Well, over time, it became more and more unusual. We used to— at 
one point, we had what was a Happy Lesbian Couples group. And  
it was like five or six couples that saw a couple who were 
counselors, got together and people wanted. And then nobody in 
that group is still together except me and Lina  now. And that 
happened pretty quick. I don't know, you get some happy lesbians 
together and they'll break up. So now it's pretty unusual. I know 
there are some who've been together very long time. But we're 
probably— I don't know if there're folks that I know of that have 
been together as long as we have. I know there are some but— 
Raiskin:  I know at the time that some people were interested in non-
monogamy.  
West:  Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah non-monogamy, forgot about that.  
Raiskin:  And then you were in a couple. So I'm just wondering how that—  
West:  Well. Yes. In fact, it was a, wouldn't say a conflict but an issue 
between me and Lina. Because I wanted to be in a couple, and I 
wanted to be with Lina. And I didn't want to be single. And early 
on, there was a big movement, I think particularly  among southern 
Oregon women who lived on the land in southern Oregon to be 
single and not get their needs met, what they said, get all their 
needs met by one other person. Well, you can't really do that 
anyway. But you can get some of your needs met by one other 
person. But anyway, it took me about ten years of us being together 
and being monogamous for what I say, for me to convince her that 
she wanted to be in this relationship and she would. She agreed to  
be in this relationship and we sort of had a private impromptu 
commitment ceremony, I guess, back then.  
 But yeah,  I don't know  if she talked about that in her interview, but 
she— it was an ideal I think that she— for her to not be  in a couple. 
And I think part of it was a lot of times couples act real exclusive,  
they talk to each other and not to other friends who are there or 
they can be real exclusive, I guess that is the word. And so, and 
that's hurtful to people who are not in a couple. I mean, if not 
everybody wants to be in a couple. If you don't want to be  that's 
fine, but it's not— so I think she was aware of that and wary of that 
being that kind of behavior, so. But I think we've been aware of that 
enough to try to not do that. Besides, other people are mighty 
interesting. And it's fun to be with other people. So we— but yeah, 
I think the longer have been together the more unusual it is.  
 And when we moved to the coast in 1980, and we stayed over there 
for about four years. It's very hard to make a living on the coast, it's 
so seasonal. And our part of the  coast was from Port Orford up to 
Newport. We lived in different places. And it's a struggle to find 
work and make a living. I had a really bad job in Port Orford, I 
worked the graveyard shift from 11:00PM  to 7:00AM at the Circle K 
market, on 101 in this little wild fishing town down there. And it 
was dangerous. I should have never done it. My friends should 
have never let me do it. But anyway, it was a job. I did it for about 
seven months. I think the thing that really got to me was I was  
never able to learn how to sleep in the daytime. I was real sleep 
deprived and—  
 But it was the only store open on the coast on the south coast 
between Coos Bay and Brookings. And, I would have teenage boys 
just begging me to please sit a six pack out in the alley behind the 
cooler,  please. Or, somebody would come in and buy them beer 
and so it was like— and people shoplifted and it was crazy. And I 
would work there by myself, there was not another— because  the 
owners want to save money. They didn’t want two people there all 
night. That was a job that I had when we lived on the coast. And 
then as we moved up the coast, we acquired a sign shop when we 
moved to Newport and learned how to make signs. We didn't 
know how. And that lasted about a year. But in the wintertime, 
boom, your income really falls off.  
Raiskin:  Were you visible as lesbians on the coast?  
West:  Yeah, I don't think we ever— well, in Port Orford, we kind of tried 
to keep a low profile, but we never hid it from anyone.  
Raiskin:  Did you find a community there?  
West:  We had some friends who lived up the road in Langlois. And so 
there were five or six lesbians in that area. But we got this wild and 
this is crazy too, of having a lesbian camp out at our place. We 
lived in this beautiful place right up above the port in Port Orford. 
And we had— it was a fairly secluded trees all around area but— 
so we had a camp out and people were— lesbians came from San  
Francisco and all around, brought the dogs, and camped out on our 
land, in this little tiny town. So I'm sure you know, shopped in 
town and it was— we were  never in the closet. No, I've never been 
in the closet. Back to Newport, we had a softball team there. Our 
little sign shop sponsored a softball team. So there was a larger 
group of friends there. But mostly we really didn't get to know each 
other. I've had found out since we moved away from there.  
 We just partied, we'd go to somebody's house and roll up the rug 
and dance to Michael Jackson had just come out with that big 
album. Yeah big album of his and these folks were on our softball 
team and so that went on till we left there in ‘84 and moved back to 
Eugene. And then years and years later, we bumped into one of 
those Newport friends at a restaurant in Seal Rock. And we've just 
become the best friends. She's one of our best friends now. She lives 
in Portland. And we found out  how much we have in common. We 
like to watch birds, we love to read. All this stuff that we didn't 
know back then because we were too busy partying. But I 
mentioned that because the same kind of lifestyle went on over 
there that I had known in Eugene.  
 But I wrote down a whole bunch of different notes here. So I 
mentioned— oh, Women's Press was one of the first things when I 
first came to town. I was real into photography. And I wanted— I 
went to Jackrabbit Press  and looked up different ways to make a 
living. But I wanted a job I didn't— but turns out there was 
opportunity for a lot of volunteer work. I took some photographs  
for Women's Press. And that way I met Mary Anne and I met 
Laurie, who has since died. Big loss to all of us. But I took some 
photographs for the Women's Press. And they were a little collective 
of two, I guess, that were doing the Women's Press publication.  
Long:  And the— excuse me the— was it a newspaper?  
West:  I don't think it was a newspaper. I think it was just a publication. 
I'm not even sure how often it came out. But it was about women's 
news all around the state. I remember going down to southern 
Oregon, with Mary Anne one time to take some pictures of some 
meeting. There was meetings that was going on about some issue. 
And they would write that up and put that in their publication to 
let folks know what was going on.  
Long:  And the publication was actually titled, Women's Press? 
West:  I think so.  
Long:  Okay. Do you remember the name of the press that printed it?  
West:  I don't, but it  may have been printed by Jackrabbit Press. Because 
that was in the same building. It was in the Growers Market  
building down here near the train station on a second floor. 
Women's Press had a little office and Jackrabbit press had their press 
there. But I don't know who printed it actually. Then there was a 
Country VW, which was the garage and the mechanics. Christine 
and all of her crew that we all took  our cars to, to get fixed. There 
were restaurants, there was presses, printers, there was  
construction. There was the Country VW, the mechanics. It could 
all be done by your friends. It was a very just quite amazing time to 
have all of that. There was also a wheelchair basketball  team.  
 Linda might talk more about that because she was part of the 
coaching staff on that. But yeah, and some— that was fun to watch. 
There was the Full Moon Rising was a tree planting crew women, 
all women. And tree planting was a big way to make lots of jobs 
available in tree planting back in those days. The  Hoedads. But Full 
Moon Rising was a women's crew. There was the Wallflower Dance 
group that made fantastic dance presentations. They were very 
talented folks. There was Mother Kali’s  bookstore. Which was also 
a collective, all kinds of books there. I think their bookstore and 
Peralandra  had some crossover, the same types of books. And there 
didn't seem to be a big rivalry or any issues about that kind of 
competition. And back in the day, people bought books.  
Raiskin:  Do remember what you were reading then, in those days?  
West:  No, I don't. I tried to read a lot of lesbian fiction, but frankly, it 
wasn't very good. And I must say that Elana Dykewomon is the 
best writer that I ever knew of in those days. And she's still a 
writer. She lives down in San Francisco and a lot of her books and 
poetry have a lot of Jewish history and content and topics. And so 
I'd read her books a lot. They were wonderful. But no, I don't 
remember what I was doing. I read a lot now, but I wasn't reading. 
I guess I wasn't reading that much back then. Pardon?   
Raiskin:  You were too busy?  
West:  Yeah, too busy. But let's see what else is on my list here. Let me find 
out. Yes, there was the Kung Fu martial arts group. And there were 
self defense classes. And over time after— when we came back 
from living on the coast in 1984, we did a number of jobs, both of 
us. And we finally went into business together as graphic 
designers. And one of the projects that we had was Bridges  
magazine that we designed and laid out all the magazines for 
Clare.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what Bridges  was?  
West:  Oh yeah, it was a journal. Let me see if I can say what their subtitle 
was A Journal for Jewish Lesbians and Our Friends  or something like 
that. But it was poetry, it was art, it was stories, it was history, it 
was essays. It was really quite  a wonderful publication. I think it's 
still going but Clare, when she moved away she took Bridges  with 
her. But it was really fun working with her even though neither 
Lina and I were Jewish, but we— and I pointed that out to her and 
she said, "Well, I don't care" –to Clare when she came to us to do 
this. But that's one of the most fun and creative projects to produce 
this magazine with her. That was probably one of the most lesbian 
related pieces of work that we did as graphic designers.  
 We designed a lot of little posters and postcards and little publicity 
materials and other things for other lesbians and friends of ours. Or 
some of them actually had other kinds of jobs where they were a  
marketing person for that company and they would hire us to do 
things for their company. So we— it brought us into contact with a 
lot of other people too. A lot of other not lesbians, non-lesbians. 
Raiskin:  I don't know if we're  rushing too far ahead. But I'm wondering 
about the anti-gay measures that were sponsored by the Oregon  
Citizens Alliance and your involvement with those, that political 
time.  
West:  Oh, yeah, over and over, over and over. I think the first time of 
course in 1978. I think was May of 1978. I don't know if it was 51. 
So there was that. And actually, I think that's where I met Julie, in a 
group that was working against that measure. And then there was 
No on 9. And then there was another one after that 2007 or 
something I don't remember what that one was. But there were 
several that kept popping up to— not take our rights away, but not 
give us the rights that we deserve to have. And the OCA was just— 
every time they had an opportunity to bring a measure to the vote 
they would. So we had to— a lot of our energy was spent fighting 
these measures. And the amount of money that went into these 
campaigns could have been spent— it's like nowadays, so much 
political money could be spent making the world better or feeding 
people or eliminating hunger in Lane  County. It could be right 
here, it's just heartbreaking, but you have to keep fighting and you 
have to do what you can to try to make the world a better place, a 
more open place.   
 So, we were involved in, in those. We would phone bank, we 
would mail postcards, we would do whatever people do to try to 
get the vote out and we would actually I think we were allowed to 
go to the polling places and stand a certain distance away and hold 
signs up and stuff. We did that.  
Raiskin:  Did you make those signs?  
West:  Oh, yeah. And that was kind of scary, actually. Because people 
would get  really, they would yell things  at you for your point of 
view.  And, I think that's  not allowed anymore. I don't think you 
can do that anymore. So, those were conflicts with other people 
outside of our way of thinking, I guess. Let's see what else I had 
written down. That was the last thing I had here actually. And, of 
course, in our lives, we went through the same things that 
everybody goes through. There were illnesses, there was breast 
cancer. People survived, people died. Lina got breast cancer in 
1989, I believe. And thank goodness, she's one of the survivors. 
There were people who got other kinds of illnesses and diseases. 
On another note, they were all of our animals that we had. They 
had been a big part of our lives all these years. We've had at least 
seven or eight or nine different dogs over the forty  years and 
usually two at a time, but then now we have one. Cats, I think I 
counted we had had seventeen  cats from time to time.  
 And that's always, you go through their whole lives with them. 
And there's joy and grief involved in all of that, being a responsible 
pet owner.   
Raiskin:  What did you think about the medical care in Eugene? Were you 
out as lesbians with your doctors? How was that?  
West:  Well, actually, I had a lesbian doctor for a while. And then she 
retired. But yeah, we've had good experiences. I think the only kind 
of weird experiences that we had was when Lina  had breast cancer 
and was going into have a lumpectomy. There was a $500 
deductible on our health insurance. And before they would do the 
surgery, they wanted us to pay that. And I don't know where that 
came from. I don't think that was easily the protocol for how they 
did patients. But anyway, we came up with it. We paid them. And I 
wasn't allowed to stay in the room with her all night. I slept down 
in the waiting room on the couch, I think.  
Raiskin:  Had you been her husband, do you think you could have stayed in 
the room?  
West:  I thought so. I think so. I know I don't know for sure. But I always 
felt like that I could have but wasn't allowed to. But for the most 
part, no, her surgeon, the surgical team, our personal doctors, our 
dentists. All the people that we've dealt with. I think that— I don't 
know whether it's— where that comes from. Maybe it comes from 
being out, and being okay with it, and being confident. Maybe it 
comes from being educated, and able to communicate. Maybe it 
comes from having such great personalities that people like you. It 
comes from being white, I think. I know other people have a lot of 
other experiences. But I think, we've been lucky, maybe fortunate.   
Raiskin:  Than the other lesbians who've been visible. So you're not the only 
ones.  
West:  Yeah. So, yeah, I believe so. We have had good experiences in the 
medical community.  
Long:  When you think back on the vibrancy of the lesbian community in 
the early days, have you thought about why there  aren't all these 
different organizations that are lesbian owned anymore?  
West:  Oh, well, yeah. I mean,  we notice  the lack of community now I 
guess. And I don't know if it's a matter of aging or a matter of— a 
lot of our really good friends from those days have moved away for 
different reasons. Or they stay away, down in Arizona, come back. 
And, a lot of folks are still here. Some people had babies. And so 
that creates another whole connection point. We never wanted to 
do that and so we sort of drifted out  of that. Out of those folks' 
lives. But it's different now for sure. I think assimilation, maybe 
having babies is part of that. And in a way it's a good thing to have 
lesbians and gay people assimilated into the culture as a whole. But 
it does— you do remember what it was like back then, and it's not 
like that now. It's very different. All the different reasons I mean, 
things change, people's interests change, they move away.  
 I was talking to my neighbor down the street the other night and 
told her that we were doing this project with you all. And she said, 
"Oh, I think that's great. So many young people were so interested 
in this now." And I said, "Oh, really? You think so?" She said, "Yes."  
She was saying she really has been heartened by the young people 
that she knows in the twenties and thirties. And I think she has her 
children. Some of them are in their twenties and thirties. And 
maybe all of them. And I said, "Well, that's really good to hear 
because I think that there was a gap there." And I don't know how 
those folks are now but they just weren't interested in us. I mean, it 
used to be you’d walk down the street, you would see someone 
and you would know if they were a lesbian or not, and you would 
acknowledge that. And that hasn't happened in a long time with 
young people. Maybe I can't always tell if someone's a lesbian or 
not. But sometimes you certainly can, but there's no recognition.  
 I'm glad that there is a group that's— I'm glad that there are people 
who are going to be interested in this. I think it's interesting.  
Raiskin:  What would you tell a young person who's watching this on the 
wisdom of your life?  
West:  Oh, you're right. Boy, I don't know. I guess  I'd want  to thank them 
for being interested in looking at this material. And whatever they 
want to learn from it, I can't imagine. It's just history, but it's an 
important part of history and it wouldn't be known maybe unless 
you knew someone who had lived through  it. 
Raiskin:  And looking back, what would you say was your greatest joy of 
having lived here during those times?  
West:  Oh. Well, my friends, Lina, our critters. The landscape. Oregon is 
just so beautiful and we still haven't been everywhere, yet. And so  
just being happy to have a beautiful place to live in. It’s so— you 
have the coast and all the different weather there, you have the 
mountains and all that, you have eastern Oregon, which is largely 
desert in some areas. We watch birds and so and we have a  group 
of friends that we watch birds with and we've been going over to 
Malheur Wildlife Refuge every year. At least once a year. 
Sometimes twice, sometimes three times, for over thirty  years. It's 
like another heart place to go to. So that's been a great joy. Having 
Lina is my greatest joy. And our animals and having that shared— 
that you of course— you could say well, it would be hard being 
with somebody who didn't love animals. Well, I probably wouldn't 
be with somebody who didn't love animals. That's been a big part 
of my joy. And being able to be out feeling like I can be brave and 
be out and let people  know who I am. And be happy. I could go on 
and on.  
Raiskin:  Did you and Lina get married officially?  
West:  We did. We actually got married twice. The first time was when the 
Multnomah County City Council up in Portland decided to allow 
gay people to get married. So, we knew they were considering it, I 
think. But anyway, Lina called me up at work one day and said, 
"Come on, we gotta go get married." And I  left. I said, "I got to go." 
Laid my phone down and we went running up to Portland and got 
married.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?   
West:  Oh, it's great fun. We were one of the couples that had been 
together— we'd been together twenty-seven  years by then, I 
remember. And they wanted, "Who's the oldest couple?" And so I 
don't know they might have taken a picture or something. But 
anyway, we got married, we gave them a check for $60 for a license 
fee. Which it turns out weeks later, the wheels turn around and 
they never cashed those checks. They sent them back. We took the 
money and gave it to Basic Rights Oregon. Lina at that point was 
fond of saying, "Well, we've been together forty  years, but the 
marriage didn't last." So then, yeah, we recently, when we were 
allowed to get married again, we got married on May 28 of 2014. 
We've been married for four years now. That's nice. I think did 
observe, I did kind of feel like it made a difference in how I felt to 
be able to be married and be a legally recognized couple.  
 And after all this time, it was pretty gratifying.  It was a long time 
coming. And but better late than never, I guess.  
Raiskin:  How did it make you feel? What was different?  
West:  I don't know. Just made me feel more settled or more happy or 
something it made me feel more legitimate I guess. I don't know 
exactly a feeling came over me that I recognized and observed and 
made a note in my mind about that. Something's different. But I 
don't know what other people would say. That'd be interesting to 
find out. Maybe it will be like having a baby. If you really wanted 
that kind of fulfillment in your life or something, maybe I don't  
know what an analogy would be, something. So, see if I can say 
anything else.  
Raiskin:  Anything we haven't asked you? 
West:  Well, I don't know. I think we've covered a lot of territory. But we 
are getting older. So I'm seventy-eight  now and I know one of my 
friends from Starflower  who has Alzheimer's. Somebody's had a 
stroke. Different people, like I say have died and have MS  or other 
things that have gone into remission, happily. And so it's really just 
life keeps going on right now.  
Raiskin:  What would be your ideal scenario for the lesbians in Eugene who 
are aging?  
West:  My ideal scenario? Oh, I don't know they just live in peace and 
there might be joy on the political scene again.  
Long:  Had you in Lina  considered going into a retirement community?  
West:  Well, we talk about it every now and then. But there is not one that 
would feel comfortable to us, to me, especially. She might be more 
comfortable and under certain circumstances. But I'm so ornery and 
I'm very particular and I really can't imagine living within that 
situation. We have, experience and ideas in our mind about what 
that might be like because of our parents and the assisted living 
communities that they were a part of. And my thoughts are just so 
negative about— that’s horrible. They were, particularly her 
parents were really happy. I think they moved into this assisted  
living community place when they were like in their seventies, like 
seventy-two or something. And they were happy there, they had 
golfing friends, it was perfect. Well, for lesbians and gay people, I 
don't think that— there may be some options available or starting 
to happen like in Portland or San  Francisco or those locations. But 
we— I just can't imagine it for myself, especially.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think it would be an advantage to have it be for 
lesbian or gay people, as opposed to just regular assisted?  
West:  Well, I don't know. You just want people that you have more in 
common with to live with. This is an intimate situation. When we 
remodeled our house, we kept it all on one floor. We didn't build 
up or anything with the idea that we would want to stay in our 
house as long as we could. We have separate entrances. When we 
had our office when we were doing graphic design, we made this 
happen. There’re two bathrooms. And so we've sort of remodeled 
our house with the idea that maybe someone could live in this part 
of the house and take care of us. But who would that be? I don't 
know. Got to be the right person. So, the older you get, the more— 
if I am assuming that my mind would continue to operate in a good 
way. And I would be aware of things. I know that doesn't happen 
to everybody and it may not happen to me. But the intimacy of 
living with somebody is— I just would be very particular about 
who that person would be.  
Raiskin:  And would you want a caretaker to be gay?   
West:  Well, not necessarily. Not necessarily.  
Raiskin:  It's just interesting to think about different options.  
West:  Has to be a good cook. As good as me and Lina.  
Long:  Well, thank you very much.  
Raiskin:  Thanks so much. It was really nice— 
West:  Oh, thank you. This is amazing.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  