
Long: This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Harriet Rubin on September 4, 
2020 , taking place in Special Collections and University Archives in 
the University of Oregon Libraries. The interviewers are Linda 
Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special 
Collections and University Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin 
of the UO Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
Harriet, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project, and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview. 
Rubin: I agree.  
Long:  Thank you. Let’s just begin with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born and something about your 
early years?   
Rubin: OK. I was born in Albany, New York.  My parents moved West to 
California when I was still a pretty young child. And, grew up in 
the Los Angeles area. I come from parents that were aspiring to be 
middle class and assimilate into the American way. Jewish, 
children of immigrants.  
Long: Harriet, what year were born?  
Rubin: I was born in 1952.  
Raiskin:  What would you say was your temperament when you were a 
child?   
Rubin: Oh, temperament. I think I was a curious kid. Hard to know—so 
long ago.   
Raiskin:  Were you an only child?   
Rubin: No, I have an older brother.  We get along as siblings. He still lives 
in California; I, of course, have moved to Oregon. It was kind of the 
ideal family: two parents, the older boy and the younger daughter. 
They got exactly what they wanted in that way. Of course, I didn’t 
turn out how they had hoped  but, it all worked out.  
Raiskin:  What was school like for you?    
Rubin: School life. We settled into a suburban area of Los Angeles that did 
not have very many other Jewish families. So, I remember always 
feeling like I didn’t quite belong in that way. I did experience some 
antisemitism as a child that I didn’t quite know how to understand. 
I managed to carve out some good friends and stick with them.  
Raiskin:  Did you enjoy being a student?   
Rubin: I always did like being  a student, yeah. I enjoyed learning.  
Raiskin:  When did you think you might not be straight?   
Rubin: That started occurring to me in my college years. I was dating boys, 
and I never had any trauma with men, but I always had these 
fantasies of being with women. Finally, in my last year of college I 
decided to go ahead and explore that. And, wow, I found my place.  
It was very exciting.  
Raiskin:  Where were you at college?   
Rubin: I was at Los Angeles. It was the mid-seventies and it was such an 
exciting time because not only coming out as a lesbian, but it was 
also the height of the women’s movement. It was almost— it was 
like everybody’s movement. It was Black Power, and fat 
oppression, all kinds of ethnicities finding their voice, as well as 
myself. Marching  in the street. It was wild. It was a wild time. 
There was Take Back the Night, there was— all kinds of— I just 
jumped right into the political scene. It was fun. It was wild.  
Marching in the streets and screaming. We called ourselves radical 
lesbian feminists. It was very fun.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember things you were reading or music you were 
listening to?  Can you paint a picture— 
Rubin: There was lots of women’s music and oh, gosh— Women’s Press, 
but I can’t remember  all the names. I saved the publications for 
years and years and then I finally shipped them all off into a box to 
the New York Lesbian Archives. But, there was so much going on.  
It was very fun. I loved it. I just jumped right in and embraced it. 
Then, my partner at the time was intent on getting out of the city, 
and that’s when we started talking about moving to Oregon. We 
had friends that had moved ahead of us and were here.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about Eugene before you came?   
Rubin: Not much. Nothing, really. Oregon was just this wilderness state, 
right? [chuckles]. But I had a friend who had moved here ahead of 
me and she kept sending me letters telling me how many rainbows 
she saw and how beautiful it was. So, I did bring one of those 
letters. I can read a little bit to you.  
Long:  Please.  
Rubin:  So this is my friend Linda Wayman. She talks about how much she 
misses me and how she’s going to talk me into moving to Oregon, 
to Eugene. She’s in Eugene. She says:   
[reads]: “I miss your craziness, your love, all the energy you give 
us, I miss Thursday nights, I even miss your repeats, I even miss 
your repeats. I was so jazzed to get out of the city, did I forget to 
tell you how much I wanted you to come along? I’m going to try 
my best to get you here. The state of Oregon is beautiful. I had no 
idea how colorful it is.  Last weekend we went about twenty miles 
outside of Eugene. We went up to a national park. The rivers are so 
clean that you can see the bottom. You can actually see the depths 
of water  by the color.”  
She talks about the frost on the trees and how tall and old they are, 
how green everything is. She says:  
[reading]: “I walked through the forest; I can almost see Diana 
running through.”  
And then, she says:  
“As I write about the women in Oregon I’ve just become aware that 
making friends takes time everywhere, but I find that the women to 
be very warm and open. And there’s lots of them, too. Everywhere 
I go I see dykes. The community here is growing like mad. Last 
week when I attended “Woman to Woman,” a discussion about 
lesbians that goes on bi-weekly, there were four new women that 
had just moved to Oregon. There were about forty women there. 
After the meeting we went to a woman’s house and drank beer. 
The bookstore, Mother Kali’s, is the community meeting place. 
They’re moving about two blocks from our house, so it’s going to  
be fun remodeling the building and moving the bookstore. We 
happened to move right into the dyke neighborhood. Like 
everywhere, just move to the poor part of the town, and that’s 
where you’ll find them. There’s so  many collectives here. It’s a big 
hippy-type town where you can almost do any kind of work with 
political-minded people. There’s a company called Starflower, 
which is a warehouse where they load and store natural foods. It’s 
a company of dykes and they’re  hiring right now. They ask 
questions like ‘What are your  politics? What’s your concept of 
feminism?’”  
Then she says:  
[reads]: “Housing is always hard to find but you can always live 
with us until your can find something you like. And maybe we can 
even rent a larger house. All sorts of big houses are for rent here. 
As for a job, don’t worry. I can support you easily on $3.36 an hour, 
because it’s pretty cheat to live here.” [chuckles]  
So, that’s Eugene. And, I did end up moving here, of course. When 
I first  got here, I landed in Corvallis because that’s where I got a 
job. I lived in Corvallis for a few years before— I actually ended up 
losing the job that I had moved to Oregon to get because my 
employer realized that I was a lesbian. That was heartbreaking, and 
it was a grueling time.  
Long: Harriet, can you describe what your work was? What was your 
work environment?    
Rubin: I had gone into environmental health and so I was working with 
the County Health Department on environmental issues, and also 
some public health but mostly— my degree was in environmental 
health. So, one year I lost my job.   
Long: Can you tell us a little bit about what happened? Were you out to 
your fellow workers?   
Rubin: I had not come out but what happened— actually, I will just go into 
it briefly  because it’s a long painful story. He invited some of his 
employees to a Christmas party at his house, and I foolishly 
brought my partner with me, who was my “roommate,” which I 
thought was fine. But it was actually, I’m pretty sure, his wife  that 
kind of figured out there was an intimacy between us. From there, 
after the party, he started sabotaging my work, and something 
serious was going on. I did file a grievance against him, and we 
went into mediation, and it was kind of a long, drawn-out process. 
We finally drew up an agreement for me to leave but still keep my 
personnel record good so that I could get another job. Through all 
of that struggle, my partner that I had moved to Oregon with 
decided to break up with me. So, there was one year when I lost my 
job, my girlfriend broke up with me, and then my car broke down. 
And then I moved to Oregon and I actually moved in with Linda, 
the friend who had sent me this letter.  
Raiskin:  You mean you moved to Eugene.   
Rubin: I mean Eugene, yeah. What did I say?    
   
Raiskin:  Oregon.   
Rubin: Oh, sorry.  Yeah, I moved to Eugene, moved in with Linda. I so 
loved Eugene, compared to Corvallis. Corvallis— you know, I 
moved from Los Angeles to [from] this vibrant, multicultural city 
to this little, white, backward town, which is how I saw it. There 
were women in Corvallis that had told me that I was the first Jew 
that they had ever met, which is shocking, but true. At least coming 
to Eugene there was a little more culture, people were a little more 
savvy, the  university was a little more progressive. So, I was very 
much happier in Eugene, and have never left, as you see.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what Eugene was like then, the neighborhood 
you lived in, the places you went to?   
Rubin: Oh gosh, well, you know, like Linda said in her letter, we ended up 
moving into a big old house  in the Whiteaker area, which is where 
most of the lesbians were.  
Long: Harriet, what were the coordinates? What were the streets?   
Rubin: I think we— I moved around. I think we were on Third and 
Monroe. Then I later move to another house that was on Fifth, 
likewise a big house with like four to six rooms that were all rented 
out to women. The rent was really cheap. We were young ,we 
didn’t need much. We didn’t have much, we didn’t need much, but 
it was quite fun. We were changing the world. We were going to do  
things differently, we didn’t need men anymore, and women were 
learning how to do things on their own. It was a very exciting time 
and of course I was always happy to march in the streets when 
people organized political rallies and things. But what I liked most 
to do myself was organize play.  
Raiskin: Can you tell us a little more about that?   
Rubin: Well, I think it started— let’s see. I think my interest got piqued 
doing behind-the-scenes work with various friends on— I worked 
a little bit with Sally Sheklow, just behind the scenes on her one-
woman theater piece, and then I really got into it with Carol Horne 
when she had Little Apple Productions. I so enjoyed working with 
her on the three different theater pieces that she did during that 
time.   
Raiskin: Do you remember what they were?   
Rubin: Bluefish Cove, Hannah Free, and there was one other smaller 
production  I’m not remembering. And that was all— let’s see, I 
think those were in  1994, Bluefish Cove. Then I got involved with 
Nadia Telsey and we organized a big community Passover Seder 
at— we rented the Senior Campbell Center, the big hall. We did 
that twice. I think she told me there was a third time, too, that was 
smaller. But we  definitely did two huge ones. Lots of women 
helped out, lots and lots and lots of women helped out.  
Raiskin: Were those benefits for anything?   
Rubin: These two weren’t. They were just to bring the community 
together. It ended up being a lot of educating because there were so 
many more non-Jewish women than our small group of Jewish 
women that it ended up being a lot of educating. I think that kind 
of burned us out on those two.   
Raiskin: What do you mean it burned you out?   
Rubin: Well, we stopped doing it after that. Although, on my own, and in 
smaller groups, many years of Passover Seders and big dinners 
with friends.  
Raiskin: Where you involved with Baleboostehs?   
Rubin: Absolutely.   
Raiskin: Can you describe that?   
Rubin: Right from the start. That was  the thing when moving to Oregon 
and Eugene in particular, it’s like, “Where are the Jewish lesbians?” 
Because they’re everywhere in Los Angeles. You’d come here and 
you’d go, “I know there’s got to be some somewhere!” So, in the 
beginning there was maybe eight or ten of us and we’d get together 
in a little group, just give each other support and laugh our heads 
off and talk about our lives. Slowly through the years, it got larger 
and larger and larger until it was an enormous group by the time it 
disbanded. It was very fun and it really, I think, saved our lives as 
far as community and culture and that kind of thing.   
Raiskin: Were you involved here in the Temple Beth Israel, or were you 
consciously not?  
Rubin: I did become a member of the Temple at one point. Because more 
and more lesbians were becoming involved and I was very 
impressed with the movement of the congregation towards 
acceptance, so I decided to become a member for that reason. But 
the truth is, I would go to services— you know, after a while I  was 
just really going to high holy days services. I enjoyed having that 
connection to my culture and my religion and my family, but it was 
like, all this god stuff— I couldn’t relate to the god stuff, so I started 
going less and less and then I finally withdrew my membership, 
although I have to say I appreciate that they’re here. I do, and I still 
go once in a while as a non-member, and I still give them my big 
donation every year. So, that’s how I can support them.  
Raiskin: Can you paint a picture of what a day would be like in the lesbian 
community in Eugene, at different points? When you first came, 
maybe later, where you went, who you hung out with and what 
you did.  
Rubin: Well, first coming here, in the early years, it was the bar scene. The 
Riviera Room, and later there was Perry’s by the bus stop. That’s 
where— it’s an interesting thing because oppression kind of kept 
us close together. The bar was where you would meet lesbians. It 
used to be you could just go into any town anywhere and find the 
lesbian bar or the women’s bookstore, and that’s where you’d find 
the lesbians. That was it, was hanging out at the bar  a lot. I think  
what happened over time was women started realizing they were 
alcoholics and going into recovery. Bars started closing, we started 
migrating into other avenues of our lives, and it just changed. It just 
changed. But I also, once I got the bug or organizing fun activities, I 
started doing—a well, I had originally started dipping my foot in, I 
found I had some skill in event planning and I loved it. I loved 
creating community and bringing women together. I was more 
interested in doing it for the fun of it than really any other purpose. 
I started— I think the first little thing I did was a dinner club where 
I got together four friends, and we were all single at the time, and I 
said, “Here’s a way that we can socialize  together and cook dinner 
and rotating at different houses and cook dinner for each other.” 
That was very fun and it was how Aggie and Toby ended up 
getting together, too. 
 I had Academy Award parties  at my house, that we’d try to guess 
who the winners were going to be, and things like that. Then I just 
doing themed parties on my birthday, which were a hoot, and I 
brought some of the flyers. Some of the parties were—   
Long: Can you describe some of the parties? They had themes.  
Rubin: Well, I think one of the early ones was a black lace party. And let 
me tell you, after the lesbian “uniform” of jeans and flannel shirts 
fell away and there were all these dykey women walking around in 
black lace— it was pretty fun. I had a Motown party one time that 
was fun. I think the ugliest party I was the plaid party [chuckles]. 
Everybody came in all different kinds of plaid. Like sometimes  
there would be three or four plaids on one person. I did a 
butch/femme switch party where if you identified as one or the 
other, you had to come dressed as the opposite. And if you didn’t 
know what you were, or you just kinda didn’t do that kind of 
thing, then just pick one, take it to the extreme and  come to the 
party. Some women did that. That was hysterical because  
women— I mean, you would see these tough, butchy-looking 
women walking around going like, “My nails aren’t dry yet!” 
[shakes hands], with lipstick.  
Raiskin: What year was that?  
Rubin: It was in the mid-1990s. The other thing I started doing was I 
organized ballroom and Latin dance classes for women, and that 
was around 1993. Also mid-nineties. I did that for oh, about five 
years, maybe longer. I hired a teacher who was gay-friendly. I did it 
out at Agate School had a big hall. And it was just so fun, just so 
fun. I also did campouts for ten years, from 1995 to 2005 where I 
would rent a big group campground. This was Horsecreek. All 
these different lesbian women would come and grab their 
campsite, and we’d have a weekend together out in the woods.  
Raiskin: What was your job, or what kind of work did you do in Eugene?  
Rubin: In Eugene I ended up working for both FDA and Department of 
Agriculture, the State of Oregon, and I worked with companies that 
manufacture food products for distribution, for wholesale 
distribution. I was on the regulatory end of it. It was a decent job,  
gave me a lot of autonomy. It was a good job for a short Jewish 
woman because you kind of command a certain respect when  you 
walk into the facility.  
Raiskin: Did you ever work at Starflower?  
Rubin: No, I didn’t, I didn’t. I didn’t ever have any of those jobs. No, I 
always worked really straight jobs. I was trying to use my 
education. Food technology is a lot of biology and  chemistry. It had 
a lot of variety, which I liked, and I could— different food products 
are going to have different hazards associated with them, so it was 
something that used my mind and got me out with people and got 
me moving around. I was finally working with an administration 
that appreciated my expertise. I stayed at that job till I retired.  
Raiskin: Did you ever feel any tension in the community between people 
who were college educated and people who weren’t, or worked 
straight jobs, or worked in alternative economies?  
Rubin: Well, there was a period where class was a big issue and it was 
something to be aware of and sensitive of. There was a certain 
prestige that came with working in an all-dyke environment that 
you didn’t have if you were in the straight community  working.  
Long: Can you describe some of those dyke environments, working 
environments?  
Rubin: I’m talking about Starflower, some of the— Women’s Press, some 
non-profits and things. I never felt like I had that luxury. I was  
always worried about paying my way, because I knew nobody else 
was taking care of me.  
Raiskin:  Do you think a number of women who were working in the 
alternative economies came from middle class or upper middle 
class families?  
Rubin: I think it was a combination. I knew some that did, that were 
rejecting their— or doing something different from what their 
family offered them. And I also had friends that came from 
working class families that also worked in the dyke jobs. So, I saw 
both.  
Raiskin:  Just to go back, I’m interested in how your family reacted to your 
being a lesbian and your choice to move to Oregon and the kind of 
life you were leading.  
Rubin: They didn’t really question my choice to move to Oregon. By then I 
was an adult, I was out on my own, and they weren’t really 
interfering in my life at that point. Coming out was hard for them. 
My mother would try to say it was okay, but then she would ask 
me to please not tell any of the other relatives. It was clearly 
something she was conflicted about. She did get really upset with 
me when I talked about it with a cousin of mine, who had asked 
me. I think it was difficult for them but they tried to make the best 
of it.  
Raiskin:  Did they ever visit you here?   
Rubin: They did come a few times. Yeah, they did come.  
Raiskin:  What do you remember about the anti-gay measures that were in 
Oregon from the 1970s through the ‘90s?  
Rubin: That was a hard time. Again, it drew us together. We were like, 
“Yes, we’re going to defeat this.” And we were— there was a lot of 
political activity around it. It was scary, though. It was scary.  
Raiskin: Are you talking about Measure 9?  
Rubin: Yeah, pretty much. That’s the main one.  
Raiskin:  The other political movement was around marriage equality. I 
wonder what you did about that.  
Rubin: Oh, that  happened way— much later, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any thoughts about that?  
Rubin: Let’s see. It was never, it’s sort of part of the whole transition that I 
have seen in my lifetime of coming from a really oppressed group 
that started out identifying as being seen as a psychotic disorder to 
moving to more acceptance and moving towards mainstreaming. 
The marriage equality is just one of the end results of that. It’s a 
good thing in that we want to have the rights that everybody else 
has, and there’s a loss, too, of now we’re just kind of blended in 
with the rest of the population here.  
Raiskin:  What part of lesbian culture do you think has been lost or is 
diminished?   
Rubin: Well it’s— there’s a way that oppression kind of holds you 
together, like you have a common goal, you have a fight that you’re 
working towards, and you’re looking out for each other, and your 
educating yourself, and figuring out where you need to go and 
what you need to do  and how to support each other. Then, when 
you get mainstreamed,  you are just lost in the crowd. It’s like I said 
earlier, it used to be that you could go to any town and find out 
where the lesbian bar is or where the women’s bookstore is and 
there’d be the lesbians. Now, you can go to any town and not know 
where the heck they are because they’re in their own families. 
They’re in clusters like, among all the straight people. We’ve kind 
of become a part of the community in a different way. In some 
ways that is what we were fighting for. In my lifetime, like I said 
I’ve seen it go from a psychotic disorder where you couldn’t find a 
movie or a book where the lesbian doesn’t end up either dead or 
lonely and deranged by the end of the story. And now, we’re on 
sitcoms, and we’re “in” and we’re popular, we’re attractive.  We’re 
fun. And every straight neighbor’s got a gay or lesbian friend that 
they know. Just like they all have to have a black friend, too. It’s 
like we just make the story more interesting and we’re there and 
we’re okay.  
Long: Harriet, can you tell us about the friendships you developed and 
some of the people you’re still friends with you now and what that 
community is like? When you came to Eugene you met a lot of 
lesbians and you developed friendships and you probably still  
have a lot of friends in the community. Can you describe your 
friendships with those people and their families?  
Rubin: I think I have some really wonderful tight friendships that have 
developed through the years. Several of my friends now have 
children and I have watched their children grow up. I’ve taken on a 
kind of “auntie” role with many of them. It’s been really sweet. 
Many of those friendships have developed through Baleboostehs. 
My Jewish lesbian friends and many of them have developed 
through my various organizing efforts through campouts and 
dances, dinners and parties. I think— I’m not sure exactly what 
you’re going for, but I would say I think I have some pretty solid, 
warm heart friends that will be with me forever.  
Raiskin:  You’re retired now, and I’m wondering what the lesbian 
community looks like to you now, and what you think about aging 
as a lesbian.  
Rubin: Well, we are aging, that is for sure. I think we’ll just support each 
other like we always have. It’ll just be a new phase that we go into. 
It’s just part of life. What I’ve seen so far is women stepping up and 
taking care of each other as we need to. I expect that to continue. 
One of the things I like about having stayed in Eugene for as many 
years as I have is that I do feel like I have some strong friendships 
so that if something  were to happen to me, there are women that 
would come forward and help out. I think that’s what kind of 
community we have here, is those longtime solid friends that take 
care of each other. Aging will just be a part of that.   
Raiskin:  What kind of activities are you involved in now that you’re retired?  
Rubin: Now that I’m retired? Well, you know, some much of my work life 
was science-oriented, and so in retirement I decided to flip and go 
to the arts side. So I started taking painting classes, watercolor 
painting, and I’ve been having a lot of fun with that. I picked up the 
ukulele and started learning how to— I’ve never played a musical 
instrument ever in my entire life, so that was a fun challenge for 
me, and I’ve continued with that. And I still do occasional 
gatherings when I can. I still have fun organizing—smaller now, 
parties.  
Raiskin:  I don’t know if you can summarize this, but what would you say 
your generation of lesbians in Eugene contributed to larger society 
but also historical shifts in how  we think about sexuality, or 
marriage, or family or anything that you think would be an 
important influence of your community?  
Rubin: How the community contributed to— ? 
Raiskin:  How you contributed to changes that happened.  
Rubin: —the changing times? I think part of it is just having a presence. 
One of the things I hadn’t said was that early on, I think it was 
1993, I went to the March on Washington and there was a group of 
us from Oregon that went. That’s when I was with Nadia. Just the 
masses of gays and lesbians from every state just showing up— 
and that was just one of several marches on Washington, too. I 
that’s part of it, is just being visible and showing the world who we  
are, not how we’d been defined, but who we really were, making 
our lives what  we wanted them to be, and rejecting things that 
didn’t work for us from our growing up years. Doing things 
differently, looking at the world differently. I mean, it was 
changing already in many aspects.  
Raiskin:  If you could  imagine a young person watching this video about the 
historic time you lived in and what you experienced, do you have 
any advice or insights for a younger person right now?  
Rubin: I would say don’t get complacent, fight for what’s important to 
you, and always keep your sense of humor. Remember to have fun.  
Raiskin:  And are there things that we haven’t touched on in this interview 
that you want to make sure— 
Rubin: Let me see. Well, I didn’t talk about time I spent also going to 
WomanShare and hanging out with those women and learning 
about lesbian land and just the wildness of being in the country.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that experience?  
Rubin: It was kind of a spirituality, almost. A lot of goddess/women 
magicalness and celebrating things like the moon. It was very fun. I 
had friends, my friend Janice introduced me to WomanShare and 
then I started going down there fairly regularly for a while and met 
the other women that lived there. That was also a fun experience.  
Long: Harriet, can you describe what WomanShare looked like?  What 
was the lay of the land?   
Rubin: It was this big piece of property in southern Oregon, and it had a 
main house that had a living room and a kitchen and a bathroom. 
Then there were little cabins scattered on the land where women 
lived. Or, there were a couple that they would rent. You could just 
come and stay. That is one way they made money. They also made 
money by doing workshops and things like that. It was a fun group 
and again it was a way to expand culturally, what it was like living 
in the country.  
Long: Did you ever go to any of the other lesbian lands down there? 
Cabbage Lane? Rootworks? OWL Farm, for example.  
Rubin: I did visit a couple of them but the one I spent the most time at was 
WomanShare because I had developed friendships there.  
It was a good life, I have to tell you. It just opened up this world 
that kind of came and went and will never be the same. It was an 
amazing period in time. There was just so much happening. I think 
I just jumped in. I just got involved in everything I could, and then 
I created some of my own.  
Long: Did we ask you about your experiences— I think the question was 
raised, but can you tell us a little bit more about your activities 
during the anti-gay ballot measures put forth by the Oregon 
Citizens Alliance?  
Rubin: You know, mostly I didn’t do any organizing around that. I was too 
busy organizing parties, but mostly I would just would get 
involved however I could with political activism around marches  
and petitions, and encouraging people to vote. Things like that. So, 
I was more participating in whatever things other people had 
brought to the table around that.  
Raiskin:  This is a non sequitur, but I just wanted to know if you had any 
insight on this. Because I work with eighteen to twenty-two year 
olds and hear a lot about how they think— LGBTQ students— how 
they think about sexuality and gender, I wonder if you could 
describe how your community thought about sexuality and gender.  
Rubin: We were a wild bunch, I tell you because we were going to, during 
that time we were going to do it differently, which meant down 
with the patriarchy, which meant down with all the institutions, 
including monogamy and— I mean, it’s funny because we went 
from non-monogamy to marriage equality, but, thus is life. But 
yeah, it was a wild time. There was no real— it was before AIDS, 
there wasn’t any real sexually-transmitted disease except for 
syphilis, and nobody knew anybody who got that, so to speak. We 
were all sleeping with each other and having a great old time. Not 
only that, but we were probably at the age where we were just 
peaking sexually anyway. Many of us had just come out in the 
years previous. I had sex with many friends and lovers. Very fun, 
very fun.  
Raiskin:  What about gender? How people thought about being women, or 
otherwise?   
Rubin: There was a bit of a butch/femme thing happening. Is that what 
you mean? Yeah. My view of it was a little more playful. I think 
what happened is when women first came out, there was this 
comfortable dress that everybody would wear. Like jeans and 
flannel shirts. Some of the women wanted to dress more feminine, 
but they still wanted to be considered dykes. It kind of split— 
women that wanted to dress more masculine and women that 
wanted to dress— and over time, there became permission to be 
whatever you wanted to be. It was recognized as a butch/femme 
thing But I feel like our community didn’t have expectations 
around roles, necessarily, that it was— I always looked at it as a 
more playful thing. Not that you couldn’t or doing anything 
because you were one or the other.  
Raiskin:  Were there other kind of rules that people communicated to each 
other, to keep boundaries of the community?  
Rubin:  What are you getting at?  
Raiskin:  I’m not really sure. Just like what allowed you to be a part of the 
community or  not part of the community?  
Rubin:  I think the community was  pretty open to lesbians. If you were a 
lesbian, if you loved women, the community was pretty forgiving 
about anything else. It changed in more recent times as people 
started transitioning, and then the community had to question 
whether somebody that had lived their whole life as a man and 
then became a woman was a lesbian. That’s still up for debate now.  
I mean, we’re right up to the present. And likewise, I had a good 
friend who transitioned from  being a lesbian to being a man. He 
kept a lot of his lesbian friends, including me, but he also kind of 
dropped out of the community, because it didn’t fit anymore. 
Those are more recent struggles. Before anybody thought of those 
problems or concerns, I think it was pretty open, being a lesbian 
and loving women.  
Raiskin:  I’m just tempted to ask not that I think you’ll have an answer to 
this, necessarily. Any thoughts about the lesbian community and 
the pandemic that we’re living through?  
Rubin:  During the  pandemic? Well, I think the struggle for the lesbian 
community during the pandemic is the same struggle that I have in 
just spending time with friends, is that it’s hard to gather, it’s hard 
to not hug each other. We’re a pretty touchy-feeling group, and 
it’s— entertainment is harder.  
Raiskin:  What are you doing to socialize?  
Rubin:  I’m doing lots of backyard gatherings apart, together [chuckles]. Six 
feet apart, together.  
Raiskin:  Do you have plans for the winter?  
Rubin:  Of course, that’s going to be tough. We’ll see what happens. It’s 
funny because I just had— my birthday is at the end of February 
and I just had a big birthday party where I rented a movie theater 
and showed the movie Maiden. Have you ever seen that? There  
were forty-five women in a small theater. It was the David Minor 
Theater. Actually, it was a new one that he’s building. It was the 
end of February, and it was probably a week later that COVID hit. 
It was the last party of the season. We were all sitting pretty close 
together. You know the movie, you kind of cheer for the women.  
Raiskin:  Well, I think if anybody can be creative during the pandemic, it’s 
going to be the lesbian community.  
Rubin:  Oh, absolutely. We’re a creative bunch, aren’t we? Yeah that’ll be 
interesting to see, because right now it’s easy to be outside. But 
that’s going to get tougher.  
Raiskin:  Do you see any organizing right now in the community around the 
upcoming election, the presidential election?  
Rubin:  Well, I’m doing what I can. I just recently sat down and filled out a 
whole stack of post cards that I mailed off to Texas to urge people 
to vote there, and I’m sure I’ll continue to be involved because it’s 
such an important time right now. It’s really frightening.  
Raiskin:  Anything else we should— 
Rubin:  Gosh, we covered a lot, I think. Oh, you didn’t ask me about my 
plan for aging, which is that we all move into the Eugene Hotel.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, what’s your fantasy about that?  
Rubin:  Well, Eugene Hotel is a— it’s not assisted living but it’s— how 
would you describe it? It’s a—  
Long:  A retirement center.  
Rubin:  That’s it. It’s a retirement center for— I think it’s only got like three 
floors, and I thought we should take over a floor. I love the place 
because it’s right downtown, it’s walking distance to the Shedd and 
the Hult Center, and restaurants and it’s in a vibrant part of our 
city. They have all kinds of entertainment and transportation 
benefits. I actually do know a lesbian that’s living there right now, 
and she loves it. I thought, There’s an idea.  
Raiskin:  It’s a great idea. You could be the events coordinator.  
Rubin:  There you go. They also provide dinner as part of— And it’s 
actually not that expensive.  
Raiskin:  Great idea.  
Rubin:  That’s one idea I had. We’ll see what really happens.  
Raiskin:  Well, how would you organize that, to get people interested? If you 
want a floor of people—  
Rubin:  I’m not going to organize that. I’m just going to talk about it. And 
practically everybody that I mention it to says, “Oh, that’s a great 
idea.” So we’ll see. Yeah, fighting the good fight.  
 I think I covered everything. I did manage to go to the Michigan 
Women’s Music Festival in 1979, which was also pretty exciting, 
just to be on land with— there’s something about just being around  
women with no men anywhere in sight. It’s a wonderful feeling, I 
can tell you that.  
Raiskin:  Well, thanks very much for doing the interview. It’s really nice.  
Long  Yes, thank you, Harriet.  
Rubin:  You’re welcome. Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  
 