ong: This is an oral history interview that is a part of the Eugene lesbian 
oral history project. The recordings will be made available through 
the University of Oregon, Special Collections and University 
Archives. This interview is with Peg Reese on Monday, July 9, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio, in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives  and 
Associate Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO department of 
women's Gender and Sexuality Studies. Peg, please let us know if 
you agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Rees: I agree.   
Long: Thank you. Okay, let's start out with some basic questions. The first 
one is: Please tell us where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background.  
Rees: I was born in Pomona, California, but lived in Compton, my first 
twelve  years. So, experienced the riots in 1965 in the L.A., Compton 
area. My family moved to Oregon when I was twelve. I was  just 
about going into junior high, we moved to the Beaverton area. I 
went to junior high/high  school, up near Portland. Went to Aloha  
High School. And I came to the University of Oregon because my 
sister was a student here, and I visited her many times. I enjoyed 
the area, and I didn't like my sister growing up, but I liked her 
when she moved away. And so it was fun to be where she was 
later.  
Raiskin: What year was that, that you came to University of Oregon?  
Rees: I came to Oregon in fall of 1973.  
Long: And did you identify as a lesbian at that time?  
Rees: No. I knew I was different, but I didn't have a word for it.  
Long: Okay. When you came to campus, did you notice that there were 
other people that possibly could be like you?  
Rees: I think I did, but I didn't know how to connect. As I started to 
understand myself, and understand where my attractions had 
been, and then finding words for that, I knew enough to know it  
was taboo. And that coming out wasn't safe. I didn't know there 
was such a thing as coming out, but I knew I couldn't tell anybody. 
I felt I couldn't tell anybody what my feelings were. There weren't 
enough role models or examples of that, and that being okay, but 
you would hear things that let you know that this is not going to be 
good. And I didn't beat myself up about it, I didn't hate  myself. But 
I started to negotiate what it meant to be and feel one thing, but act 
completely differently, and I felt like I could earn an Oscar by the 
time I was out of college, because I came to fully understand my 
sexuality and where my attractions lie. But because of the time and 
because I was an athlete, I think, added a layer to being closeted, 
unnecessary layer. I felt like I had become a really good actor, and 
knew how to stay safe. And stay the person that my family thought 
I was, and that my friends thought I was, and so, you learn to walk 
a pretty significant tightrope to maintain that.  
Raiskin: Can you talk a little bit about the effect of being an athlete on your 
coming out? Your social environment.  
Rees: Sure. Well, the irony is that when you're an athlete, you're likely to 
be in company of other lesbians. We do tend to enjoy sport. I know 
that's a stereotype, but stereotypes exist for a reason. And yet  we 
didn't come out to each other. We felt we would lose our position 
on the teams. We felt that either not knowing where the coach 
stood, or their level of comfort, or the athletic director if they were 
to catch wind that all the softball teams got some lesbians on it. 
Which of course it did. But we didn't know what they would do. So  
we didn't roll the dice. If you wanted to play, you were quiet about 
it.  
 I didn't have relationships with anybody on the teams. Actually, I 
had what I call—oh, what did I call those? I didn't call them 
relationships, but, I had a term for having a sexual experience with 
somebody. Because it was almost always extremely brief. And then, 
it's almost like you never talked about it again. “Glancing blows.”  I 
called them  “glancing blows.” I had a couple of glancing blows 
with teammates. That really never amounted to  anything that we 
would consider a relationship. Because it just wasn't safe. My 
sports activity was my primary identifier. I was not going to lose 
my place on a team based on— it sounds sad to say— based on my 
heart. My team experience was too critical to me. And so I was 
quiet.  
Long: Can I ask a clarifying question? When you came to UO, you studied 
physical education?  
Rees: Yes.  
Long: Okay. And then, were you on— at that time, did they have teams 
for women? I mean, were we a Division I team? Did they have that 
ranking then?  
Rees: Well— 
Raiskin: In sport, did you play—  
Rees: Yes or no. There was a Physical Education Department, which is an 
educational part of the university and then there's the Athletic 
Department, just as there is now. And so, yes, there were eleven  
women's teams, which was extraordinary in a way, because it was 
pretty early. But we belonged to  an association called the AIAW,  
Association for Intercollegiate Athletics for Women. It was a 
precursor to the NCAA. But NCAA existed but it was men only, 
and actually the NCAA brought a suit against the United States of 
America, when Title IX  was passed. They wanted to— their point 
was that it was unconstitutional. They actually fought the idea that 
women would have a place in athletics in America. They fought it, 
and they fought it, and when Title IX stood, and it was clear that 
there were going to be resources for women's athletics, they co-
opted the AIAW, they just took it over and they said, "Well, then 
we're going to run it." And of course, by that time, they had the 
resources, they had the structure, they had everything that you 
needed to run a national organization. They've been doing it for 
years. And so, that was one of the unintended  consequences of Title 
IX, is that, Title IX brought us all kinds of progress, but then it put 
us firmly in the purview of men. Whereas before, we had been led 
by women coaches, women administrators, and then those people, 
for the most part, lost their jobs. Title IX really was an advantage 
for student athletes, but not for coaches and administrators.  
Long: And, when was Title IX implemented? What year? Do you recall?   
Rees: Well, it was passed in 1972. I was a junior in high school. But 
schools were given about four to six years to really start to comply. 
It was going to be a big deal. It was going to mean massive change 
in education. Sport was just a piece of that, a side piece of that, but 
it's become one of the major focuses over time. It was passed in '72, 
but schools were given at least four years to really start to take 
steps to comply. Ironically, I was graduating college about the time 
that the university had to really show that they were complying 
with Title IX. I was in that purgatory between passing and 
implementation. But I saw some progress in my time here.  
Long: What was campus like when you were here then? Do you recall 
approximately what the student body population was?  
Rees: I don't know what the percentages were men  to women or 
anything like that. Campus was great. I love this campus. I love 
Eugene and the school. I felt like I became a person here. When I 
left home at eighteen, I pretty much never went back. I would go 
back for holidays, occasionally, but I loved the freedom of being 
close enough to my family that I could be there in case of 
emergency but far enough that they didn't know what I was doing 
on a daily basis. And campus was beautiful. It was politically lit. 
We were known for our anti-Vietnam protests. We were known for 
bombings on campus that students would set around the 
administration buildings or— 
Raiskin: In PLC?    
Rees: Yes. There was a lot of political anti-war uprisings on campus. My 
father almost didn't let me come to school here, because he didn't 
like how politically charged it was. But it was just another kind of 
awakening for me, that this campus provided. And yet we felt safe, 
we just felt like, you got a view of the country and of government 
and the world that you just didn't get in high school. No matter 
how many history classes or social studies classes you took, it 
didn't resonate, until you saw your classmates marching, yelling, 
and yelling at the administrators. Oh my God. That was wild. And 
it was exciting and it was scary and it woke you up. You all of a 
sudden you had to have opinions about things because, if you 
didn't you were dead inside. We started to think about things that 
really mattered. And so, I really felt like I came alive in my years 
here.  
Raiskin: Were you aware of students involved in gay alliances on campus or 
any socializing— 
Rees: No, it always shocks me when I go back and I read something later 
that would say something about a gay alliance group existed on 
campus. I was like, "What! Where were they? Where was I? How 
did I not hear about this?" It would have scared me if I had, but I 
think it would have inched along my awakening and my 
awareness. And I think because of my athletics, I would have never 
gone near it. Which sparks a memory. I think I did find it in the 
basement of the EMU, at some point, and I would have never 
stepped in the door. The guilt by association, even just if I would  
have been interested in  it, would have been frightening. I wouldn't 
have gone there.  
Raiskin: Was it frightening personally, or you were worried about your 
position on the team or— 
Rees: Definitely worried about my position on the team. I don't know if I 
would have called it frightening personally. I'd actually would 
have liked to have also live during that time, just as a regular 
student, to see where I would have gone, to see what I would have 
done. My athletics  dictated my direction, which kept me closeted 
much longer than I think I would have been if I hadn't been in 
athletics. Much longer.  
Raiskin: After you graduated, what were you doing?  
Rees: I was an education major, so, I got a job as a PE teacher, big 
stereotype. And a coach at Lebanon, Oregon. For five years I was at 
Lebanon, then I moved back to Los Angeles, and worked at an all 
girls school, whose population was ninety-seven  percent  black and 
Hispanic. Which was another wonderful awakening into the world 
of diversity, and race and experiencing a whole other 
discrimination there. Seven years total as a physical education 
teacher and coach at the high school level. And then I returned to 
the University of Oregon in 1982, to start working on a master's 
degree.  
Long: And the notes say that you had a GTF?   
Rees: Yes.  
Raiskin: And what was that about?  
Rees: Well, I had two positions, one after another. My first GTF was, as a 
graduate in physical education department, I was working on a 
master's on sports psychology, which didn't pan out for me over 
time. I switched to an interdisciplinary master's after a couple of 
years. My first GTF was  with the Physical Education Department. I 
taught some classes on campus. And then a GTF opened with the 
volleyball program, the varsity volleyball program. And that was 
one of the  sports that I played in college. I played volleyball, 
basketball and softball. A lot of women played multiple sports back 
in the day. There weren't so many of us, that we didn't need to kind 
of share the wealth. So we went from one sport to another. That 
was not unusual back then. But I was the last athlete they allowed 
to play three sports at Oregon until thirty  years later, when Jordan 
Kent  was allowed to play three sports. Because the seasons overlap 
and the coaches want your full attention.  
 So, I played those three sports, and then a position opened with the 
volleyball team, a GTF. And I applied for it and I got it. And that 
was just right place at the right time. If something had opened with 
basketball, I would have applied for that. And I would have been 
probably a little more qualified than I was for the volleyball, and if 
softball had opened up, I would have applied for that. And I would 
have been most qualified for that. It was just what was available,  
and I ended up staying with that team. I got promoted to assistant 
coach and then first assistant, so I was with the program for nine 
years.  
Long: And during that time, our notes say that you were closeted.  
Rees: Absolutely.  
Long: During those years.  
Rees: Yes.  
Long: Can you tell us what that was like? 
Rees: Sure. When you're recruiting student athletes to the college of 
experience, you're going into people's homes. And you're basically 
promising their parents that you're going to take care of them for 
their four years, that you're going to be their surrogate family. And 
over time— Well, I had been closeted all along. First of all, that was 
a default position. But secondly, over time, I learned that it needed 
to remain a default position. For a number of reasons, I've come to 
be— to explain it by saying that, I never wanted a talented athlete 
not to come here because either they or their parents were afraid of 
me, or what I might do. Because the mythology is that we're sexual 
perverts, right? So, the student athletes, it turned out, as I've talked 
to them later, never had an issue with me or would have had a 
problem. It was always their parents. The parents were the basis of 
the fear lie.   
 So yes, I was closeted, but also, I worked for  a man who was the 
head coach, who was a Christian  who felt like I was going to hell. I 
knew his opinions about gays and lesbians, and that we were on a 
straight path to hell. And he would have fired me in a heartbeat if I 
were out to him. And I never wanted anybody else to have that 
kind of power, to be able to decide what my career path was going 
to be. I wanted to hold that. And that it really mattered to me. 
Coaching at the college level was an absolute goal. It was what I 
wanted to do. And I did it for nine years. But it was extremely 
unhealthy for me.  
 I actually think I got sick being so intentionally closeted for so long. 
And because I was a public figure kind of highlighted that. And 
there just came a point where I had to choose my health. And also I 
was having this mental and emotional awakening to  the idea of 
living an authentic life. I got to a place where that outweighed my 
career goals. And so I left coaching because I realized that some of 
the people I cared about most didn't really know me. And that 
was— my father had died when I was twenty-five. I had 
experienced the loss of a parent that I loved. And thought, he never 
really knew me. And I thought, that can't go on. I have my mom, 
I've got siblings, I've got extended family, and I'm a good person. 
And they need to know who I am. And so, I quit coaching in 1993. 
And for me, it was stepping off a cliff in a couple of ways, not just 
the coming out, but I'm a person who needs security. Financial 
security, emotional security. This was way out of my comfort zone. 
But I just had this realization that I was not really living.   
Raiskin: Can you describe what being closeted meant on a daily basis?  
Rees: Oh! Wow. Yeah.  
Raiskin: What was being what it? What did that mean?  
Rees: What did that mean? How did that look like? Well, yes. Imagine 
every social setting when everybody used to sitting with, talking 
with, having lunch with, meeting with, are talking about what 
they've done with their family. And my family, I did have a— what 
I would call a very good relationship with a woman who lived 
forty  miles away, which was almost necessary that I get out of town 
to have my relationships. Everybody's talking about who they had 
dinner with and what they did and what their kids are doing, and 
one thing and another, and I don't have any stories. I'm just a 
listener. Being closeted is, you either just listen and don't 
participate or you lie until you devolve. And so that's one of things 
about acting, is that you, I don't think of it as lying so much as 
creating these scripts. I would create these scripts. And I actually, a 
couple of times would purposely  go on dates with men. So I'd have 
something to talk about. Right? I go out with another GTF, who 
was an athletic department say, like, I can remember specifically, I 
went to a Whitney Houston concert with  a guy who was a GTF of 
football. He was a good friend of mine. But I called it a date. And I 
milked that for about four months. With people, “Oh, yeah. Went 
to Whitney, went to dinner, went to Portland.” And I would tell 
different pieces of that story, over and  over and in different context,  
so, it would last. So, I would actually do things so I wouldn't have 
to lie. Go out with guys occasionally. And they might not think it 
was a date. But that's how I would paint it for the people around 
me who I thought needed to hear I had a life too, and I was 
pursuing a life that they could live with, not a life that I could live 
with. Pursue a life that they could live with. And you learn what 
people want from you, and hope for you. What my mom would 
hope for me. I knew that, and so you create it in ways. But then you 
have to remember everything that you've told, and who've you told 
what, and that's the downside of lying, is that, it doesn't last, the 
truth always comes out.  
Long: And you could have been lying to somebody else who was also 
lying.  
Rees: Right. That's an excellent point. And I'm sure I was because as I 
would tell these stories, and I would have other friends who were 
closeted. Those could have been potential relationships. They  could 
have even been potential friendships that had more substance, and 
more quality, than what we allowed because we  kept so much of 
ourselves. I would typically live alone so that, when I did have a 
girlfriend, she could stay with me.  
 I would go out of town, if I want to go dancing, or meet somebody, 
or when I got the nerve up to do that, which took quite a bit of 
time. So, that's being closeted too, is you don't have the guts to go 
to a gay bar.   
Raiskin: And you mentioned  that you were hesitant to go to Mother Kali's, 
the women's book store?  
Rees: Mother's Kali's had three locations that I was aware of. When I first 
realized or heard about it, that there was a women's bookstore, 
which was I think, an adequate, an accurate description, but there 
was a lot of lesbian material in there. I didn't know if such a thing 
existed. So when I found out about it, I drove past it a few times, 
kind of to  case the neighborhood. And it was in an area that was in 
a neighborhood. Homes around it. It wasn't on a busy street. It felt 
like I could possibly go in there.  I'm in graduate school by this time. 
I'm in my twenties. Later twenties. Twenty-seven-ish, when I come 
back for graduate school. And a friend of mine who we were out to 
each other, a fellow classmate, told me about a book that she had 
read, a novel. I’m like, “There's a novel with lesbian characters?” I'd 
never heard about this. I was fascinated.  
 Choices  by Nancy Tudor, is the first book I ever read that had 
lesbian characters in it. And I think it was a sad book, as they so 
often were, I think the rule was that the lesbian either had to die or 
go to a mental institution. This might have been a little past that but 
it was still sad. But, I went into  Mother Kali's, and I asked for the 
book, so I didn't have to take any time looking for it. And I bought 
it and I left. I didn't look around, I didn't spend any time, and my 
heart must have been racing. And then  Mother Kali's moved to 
Franklin Street, opposite which is now Matt Knight arena, which is 
a very busy street. And I was so bummed because I'd gotten to  
where I could go in and look at books and shop a little bit. And it 
felt safe when it was away from humanity. Then it was on Franklin, 
which is one of our main streets. But I would go in, but luckily, 
they also carried textbooks. So you could have the excuse of going 
in to look at textbooks. And cards, and gifts and other things. It 
wasn't all just lesbian stuff.  
 I would go in there. By the time it moved there, I was a little more 
freer. And then it moved on campus. And you had to be so 
comfortable with yourself and out to be able to go into the Mother 
Kali's on campus. But by then it was a main source of textbooks for 
the campus. It was— 
Long: That was on Thirteenth. 
Rees: Correct. So people had that as the smokescreen if they needed it. 
But, also by that time, the State of Oregon had gone through so 
much political progress and been through  Measure 8, Measure 9, 
Measure 8, Measure 30, on and on and on, that  the idea of our 
neighbors, our teachers, our ice cream vendors being gay and 
lesbian was not such a shock. And, I know it was not a big deal to 
go into Mother Kali’s  by the time they were on campus.  
Raiskin: Can you talk a little bit about your experience of those measures, 
living through those and Eugene?  
Rees: Well, in a word heartbreaking. Because, you would see the signs, 
and the political signs, and people's yards supporting Measure 8,  
which, if  I recall the first ones were to ensure that there were no 
gays or lesbians in our public schools, teaching. Among other 
things, but that would be one of the outcomes. And so in the public 
conversation on a daily basis, or your friends, your family and your 
neighbors, talking about how they're going to vote on your life, on 
the quality of your life. And I'm a teacher at this point. I was a high 
school teacher for seven years, I'm on campus, I'm a coach. But it 
was about ensuring that there were no teachers— gay or lesbian 
teachers, and/or curriculum, and/or mention of gay and lesbian 
history. So, it was about all of that as well.  
 As we had come out over years and gotten more and more 
comfortable being out, we were going to be forced into another 
closet, where you would know what jobs you wouldn't or couldn't 
apply for. Or you'd have to stay closeted. And this was the external 
pressure I'd known all along in athletics, is that, you just knew you 
couldn't be out as a coach. And so, now it was being spread across 
all of education. And it was sad and frightening, and as the days to 
vote got closer and closer, you're just holding your breath thinking 
Who in my family is going to vote in a way that's going to ensure 
that I don't have this job tomorrow? And that was  a possibility 
because I was  still not out to my family at the time—I'd— I'm not 
exactly sure. No, I would have been out to my family at the time in 
the measures in Oregon. Yes, I would have been out— 
Long: Can you tell us what that experience was like?   
Rees: Coming out to  my family?  
Raiskin: Yeah.  
Rees: Sure. When I told my mother, I remember telling her I wasn't 
exactly straight. Softening blow.  
Raiskin: A little bit.  
Rees: A little bit. And we were sitting in her car in a parking garage 
where  she lived in San Diego. And I just felt like, it's time. And I 
think I was twenty-nine. And so I told her. And she was pretty 
quiet. And she had a disappointing but the classic reaction was, she 
was scared for me, but then she said, "Honey, was it anything I 
did?" Parents don't want to negatively impact your life. And at that 
time, that would have been considered a negative impact.  I don't 
think we're there anymore, overall, certainly we— there is plenty of 
that still. The idea that it's a lesser way to be  in the world.  
 But I said, “No, I have three siblings. If it was something you and 
dad had done, wouldn't my siblings also be gay or something else 
that you were worried about?" And they’re not. And she said, Oh, 
OK.”  She had this personal fear. I didn't know at the time to say, 
"Well, this is not about you, Mom." But I understand that concern. 
And then her only concern she's ever had since was my safety and 
my happiness. And I appreciate that. That's what moms do. They 
care about  your safety and your happiness.  And my siblings  were 
like, "Duh.” My sister said, “I knew you were gay since you were  
five." But like, “You could have told me. Help me out here." And 
then she would tell me stories that made her think that that was the 
case. And I remember telling my brother and he was like, "Yeah, 
well." And we were at dinner in a bar, and he was like, "So, who do 
you like here?" And he’s like, "I don't want to hit on somebody 
you're going to hit on. So let's just get our cards on the table."  
 He's a funny guy, and he was very open and also was like, "Well, 
yeah, I know." But again, I was twenty-nine. These people had been 
around me a lot. It wasn't a surprise to them. It was just more scary 
for me. But, and this is what I say even to this day. And like to the 
parents of kids that I know are gay, is that, when you come out to 
someone, you have to be prepared to lose that person. And that's 
how it's been my entire life. I have to be prepared to lose you. And 
so, when I'm telling my mom that I'm gay, I realize she could— that 
could be the last day I have with her, because that had been the 
experience of most of my friends that were lesbians at that point. 
Most of my friends had bad experiences, and I was just rolling the 
dice and hoping that my mom was different. And my dad was 
already dead.  
Long: Did you lose anybody? By coming out to them?  
Rees: No, not in my family. Friends, and not even good friends. I would 
say more acquaintances. And, to be honest with you, I'm not even 
sure how accurate that is. I may have lost some friends but, I think 
my memory is selective, anymore, and it's not as sharp as it used to  
be. Which is interesting because I think coming out to someone 
does, if they're not on board with you, is it puts them in a closet. 
Now they have to decide. Am I going to pretend like I'm okay with 
you? Or am I going to be honest? And so you turn the tables on 
somebody and put the decision in their hands.  
Raiskin: You say that you were turned from coaching to pursuing a more 
authentic life?  
Rees: Mm-hmm [affirmative] 
Raiskin: What did that look like for you?  
Rees: Well, at the time, I was lucky to be doing some TV broadcasting on 
the side of coaching. I was coaching volleyball, which was year 
round, but our competitive season was in the fall. So occasionally in 
the winter and spring, I could do some sports broadcasting for 
women's basketball and softball. And so, I had done just a little bit 
of that. And that would  be a part time experience. I knew I had 
that. And then I had to find something else to do, full time with my 
life, and I didn't know where I would land. But I thought I could 
probably go back to teaching high school, which I didn't want to 
do. But, I came across the river from where the Athletic 
Department is out at the Casanova Center. Came back to campus, 
and I went to the Physical Education Department where some of 
my mentors were still in the department. And I asked Lois 
Youngen, Dr. Youngen, who was the head of the Physical 
Education Department, if she had any need for teachers. And it was  
summer, so she did. She actually had a couple classes I could teach 
in the summer.  
 I got that  part-time job, and then just by, again, which feels to me 
like luck, or being in the right place at the right time, she asked me 
if I wanted a half time job. I said "Yes, absolutely." I got a teaching 
job in the Oregon PE department. And I taught about five or six 
classes, with a half time job. Five or six one-credit classes. And 
then, I was also doing the TV, then that can grow a little bit, 
because I had more time. So then, I picked up doing volleyball, 
basketball and softball with TV. I did that for eight years.  
 But then, after one year of halftime, my supervisor, Dr. Youngen, 
asked me if I wanted a full-time job. And I said "Yes." And so, then 
I supervised some other teachers and I continued to teach about 
seven classes a term. It's a busy life  in the PE department. And 
then, I oversaw some graduate students and some other teachers, 
and then, the following year, the director job opened up. And the 
women who were running the department or were in the 
department, had been my teachers and knew me and they 
suggested I apply for the job and would like me to run the 
department, which I did for twenty-three  years.  
Long: And that was headquartered in Gerlinger?  
Rees: Esslinger.  
Long: Esslinger?   
Rees: Esslinger.  
Long: Oh, okay.  
Rees: Yeah.  
Long: What was that facility like?  
Rees: It's old and it's— linoleum floors and, turquoise walls. Very ‘70s, I 
think  Esslinger was built, well, Mac Court was built in 1926. And I 
believe Esslinger was already there. It's an  old building.  
Long: So it's really old.  
Rees: Yeah. And we've improved on the— we've built a couple of 
recreation centers as part of the Department. It's a physical 
education and recreation here on campus. We've built some 
beautiful facilities in a couple of phases over time. It's a wonderful 
place to work now but, back then it was something like 
Ghostbusters, some very old and out of date facilities.  
Long: So, now you're totally in the new building, and Esslinger  is used for 
something else, is that correct?  
Rees: Esslinger is office space.  
Long: Office space.  
Rees: And there are four classrooms in there, and it's office space. We still 
have a presence in Esslinger. Our business office is there, and some  
of our full time PE faculty have our offices in the Esslinger. And 
then the Rec Center is  just around the corner, and is  the place 
where we teach most of our classes, and our Recreation 
Department is housed.  
Raiskin: Okay. So you had twenty-three  years directing?  
Rees: Yes.  
Raiskin: What would you say your legacy is in those years of what you 
contributed? And how that relates to who you are.  
Rees: Part of my legacy is that I successfully maintained what was always 
a very good and robust program that my mentors had established. 
My mentors are women who are still in town, at least three of them, 
that are in their ‘80s and have fabulous stories themselves. One of 
them played in the All American girls’ professional baseball league 
during the war. They were very dedicated professionals. And they 
were very serious about the educational component of physical 
education. And they had established a physical education 
department that was far more than throwing out the ball. We 
taught technique and strategy and history and rules, and we taught 
skills and drills and we  did some competition or we did— we 
really tried to build on people's understanding of fitness for 
something to have for a lifetime, and we gave quizzes and tests  and 
students earn their grades.   
 And so, I maintain that. And I grew it. At one point, I had sixty-five 
instructors. I had the largest faculty on campus. And we offered 500 
and some classes per term, and I misspoke. I got my numbers. We 
offered 190 classes per term that had over 5,000 students at it. 
That's where the five came. So, 190 classes, sixty-five faculty. And it 
was robust. And at one time I had a registrar do a survey and 74  
percent  of Oregon students graduated with the physical education 
credit  on their transcript, and it was elective. They didn't have to.  
 We served, I think, one of the largest student populations, maybe 
Writing 121 got everybody, but we got nearly everybody. I think 
my legacy is maintaining what was a robust, legitimate program. 
And did get smaller towards the end of my tenure. As tuition  has 
gone up, students have quit taking as many electives because it's 
just too expensive. But, I think the faculty is still about forty-some 
and the number of classes is about 140.  It's still sizable and students 
love it.  
Raiskin: Were you able to make any inroads in the atmosphere around 
homophobia in athletics?  
Rees: In athletics?  
Raiskin: In athletics, and in the department?  
Rees: Definitely in the physical education department. Part of the reason 
that I took the job when Dr. Youngen offered it, is that, I felt that I 
could be out on campus. I remember what happened for me, I just  
remembered an important turning point. When I was in the last 
year or so of my coaching, I took a Women's Studies 101. I'm in my 
late twenties, and I've decided to take the entry level class because I 
wanted to get a clearer idea of what the topics that were critical to 
feminism. Because I've always had this feminist brain, and you 
couldn't trust what was in the Register-Guard  that they were 
covering the latest in feminist discourse.  
 So I took Women's Studies 101. And towards the end of that term, 
they had a four-woman panel of lesbians. And I was mind-blown. 
There was a grad student, and there was a woman from the 
Counseling Center, who I later had an eight year relationship with. 
We met that day. That day did a couple things for me. It taught me 
that you could be out on the Oregon campus and not lose your job. 
And I didn't know that was the case. Because when I started 
working on campus, I believed you could lose your job if you were 
an out gay or lesbian.  
 She was the first— she started the first gay and lesbian counseling 
job. Designed it and held  it on a university campus. Her whole 
clientele were the gay students on campus. She was on the panel, 
like I said, a grad student. Somebody I think from, possibly another 
faculty member. Anyway, there were four lesbians sitting there live 
and in person talking to us about being out and  being on campus 
and what their lives were like, and I was blown away, and I learned 
that day you could be on campus and not lose your job. And that 
also helped me realize that if I stepped away from athletics, where I  
didn't think, I still thought I'd be fired, because my head coach 
could have fired me for whatever reason. I thought, but I can still 
work on campus. And so I did apply for that job and thought, well, 
they can't fire me. So, I was always out. And I was always 
welcomed, and I started doing diversity work on campus, which 
included being on the Bridges panels for about ten or eleven  years.  
Raiskin: Can you describe the Bridges panel?  
Rees: Yeah. Bridges is a campus organization that is run by students, but, 
they put together panels of LGBTQA et cetera, students and faculty 
to go to different classes and essentially talk about our lives. We go 
to history class, we might talk more about the history of gay and 
lesbian life, but then we would just field a lot of questions from 
history students. Or we would go to a psychology class and talk 
about that, or we would go to women's studies class and talk about 
our lives. And generally in context of what the class was about. But 
I've been to science classes. And different kinds of disciplines that 
you might not expect on LGBTQA panel would be going to, and we 
would generally use the whole hour, or  hour and half. There would 
be four or five  of us, and we would tell a coming out story.  
 So, they get a flavor of who we were. And then, we answer 
questions from the students. And, the faculty often wanted the 
questions to be related to the content that they would be studying 
in class, but you never know where the questions would go. And 
one of our things was, you can ask us anything. Some people may  
or may not answer them. But you can ask us anything. We were an 
educational forum. And like I said, I did that every term for ten or 
eleven  years, and I would usually be the only faculty member in 
the group, it was mostly students. And so, I became the historical 
mom role for everybody.  
 Somebody would ask a historical question and the panel would 
look to me, like “Peg?”. But I loved it. I mean, it was healing, it was 
part of what— if I was unhealthy and inauthentic in my coaching 
career, I completely reverse that in my teaching career on campus 
with the blessings of the university and the structures that we have 
here. And my department was happy to see me out and about on 
campus and representing us in a positive way. And, so it was, like I 
said, every coming out is you have the chance of pissing somebody 
off or losing somebody. You're doing that over and over and over. 
And you never know who I'm talking to in class that I've had in 
class, or that I will have in class, and I'm outing  myself, and that 
can be positive or negative. But it was one of the  most healing 
processes I had  done, because I hadn't talked about myself for so 
long. I almost couldn't stop talking about myself. And it was 
wonderful.  
Long: That's powerful. What years were  that?  
Rees: Well, I retired in 2016. I probably quit Bridges around 2014. I'd 
say—.  
Long: Ninety-three?  
Rees: Yeah.  [actually, 2003]  
Long: Ninety-three? Wow! Long time.  
Rees: Yeah.  [actually, 2003]  
Raiskin: When did you take that Women’s Studies 101  class? What year was 
that?  
Rees: That would have probably been 1991 or two. Deltra  Ferguson was 
the instructor. Some things you never forget. I mean, my memory 
comes and goes now but that was a great class. And  I was 
mentored on this campus by Sandra Morgen and Joan Acker. I've 
had some wonderful connections with women on this campus, 
because I got my master's degree and then I connected with those 
two women. I got a graduate certificate in women's studies, and I 
connected with a few more. And so I've been very lucky that way.  
Long: How did the sports coaching change over time?  
Rees: Not near enough, it  almost still hasn't. I'm not sure what the 
number is but the last number I remember, which would have been 
in the last five years is that there are seven out coaches in Division I 
sport in America. Two of them were in Oregon, two of the seven 
were in Oregon one time but, maybe only one of them continues to 
be. It's still not safe. People will recruit negatively against you. It's 
still the bane of American existence to have gay people in your 
world evidently.   
Raiskin: Can you explain that by— 
Long: So, recruiting  negatively.  
Rees: Yeah. So it's actually illegal, but we know that it happens quite a 
bit. And so, recruiting athletes is a highly competitive process. And 
you want the best athletes to come play at your school. And so, if 
anybody had known that I was out, then the schools in our 
conference specifically or anybody that was after those students 
would tell the parents of that student, "Well, Oregon's got a gay 
coach. Your kid is not safe there." And they would perpetuate the 
myths, without knowing me as a person at all. But that  happens. 
Even single women who— straight single women would be the 
target of negative recruiting, because of the potential that, why 
aren't they married? They must be gay. People would negatively 
recruit against your program.  
 It put all kinds of pressure on women. And then actually, it's even 
harder I think, in some ways to be a gay man in sport. Guys can 
just be so brutal about their masculinity and can really come down 
hard on anybody who appears less than macho, in the athletic 
arena. For coaches, I would say it has not gotten any better, for 
student athletes, it's completely different. And students these days 
are far more advanced than most of the rest of the older 
generations. They grow up knowing gay kids, they grow up going 
to school with them, they grow up liking them, knowing who in 
their family is gay, et cetera. It's like, no big deal. Coming out is not  
what it used to be. There's a young man who's the son of one of my 
best friends who's twenty, twenty-one now. And, I've always 
thought he was gay, and he never came out to me. And I thought, 
how could he never come out to me? And we just have had this 
conversation recently, it's like, what's that? It's like, there were 
people he was nervous to tell that he was gay, because there still is 
this thing, but it's not the deal it was for us. For many students, it's 
not live or die. And it was for my generation. And, he's like, "Well, 
if I lose a friend, I lose a friend, you can always get another friend. 
My family loves me." And that's incredibly progressive compared 
to my era.  
 So, our student athletes live in a time where the athletic department 
is hosting Bridges panels, they're hosting mental health panels, 
they're hosting panels for student athletes. And now even a couple 
coaches have, well actually now Oregon has an out coach. I just 
realized that. And I'm not sure if she's out nationally, but she was 
sat on a panel, in the athletic department, with their entire staff and 
some student athletes. And these student athletes were talking 
about their lives to coaches, and to staff members, bringing along 
the older generations, and talking about the lives, the real lives of 
some of our student athletes. And how can we serve the student 
athlete better? It's gotten far  healthier, and some of that is thanks to 
Chicora Martin, and Mauri. 
Raiskin: Stephanie. And they were in charge of the, what's the—  
Rees: What's the— yeah. 
Raiskin: Center for LGBT Education Support Services?  
Rees: Yes. We started to do Bridges panels for them. And then they I 
realized we can do a Bridges panels with all athletic department 
athletes and we just have to find who will be comfortable. And that 
took a while. But I've gone and sat in the audience of a couple of 
those. And watched that process happen. It's far healthier for the 
student athlete. The reason that it's not come any further for the 
coach is because your career is based on your ability to draw the 
talent. And there are people out there talking about you behind 
your back, you've got to  be squeaky clean as possible. And we still 
live in a time where being gay and lesbian isn't in the squeaking 
clean vision of some folks.  
Raiskin: Over the years that you were contributing so much to the 
university, were you, and getting more involved with  lesbian 
community in Eugene? Or what did you know about the lesbian 
community in Eugene?  
Rees: By the time I was out in my work, I don't think there were, for 
instance any gay bars left in Eugene. There were when I was in 
grad school, and I can remember occasionally going to bars and 
dancing in town— 
Long: Was it the Riviera Room?   
Rees: I never went to the Riv Room. That would have been off balance for 
me [would have  been out of bounds] when I was— that would 
have been when I was closeted to everybody, including myself, in 
ways. But,  the gay McDonald's, we called it, they had— 
Raiskin: Neighbors.   
Rees: Neighbors, that was a converted McDonald's restaurant on the east 
side of campus. So, that was the place. But there was also a couple 
places, off and on  downtown. There's also a group that came to 
town, and I don't think they do any more of the “Hot Flash” 
dances, and they would be around town. I went to those quite a bit. 
I would occasionally go listen to Soromundi  sing, the lesbian choir. 
There were some social things that I did. Not a  lot.  
Raiskin: Were you friends with any of those women in Soromundi  or any of 
those organizations? 
Rees: My partner was, as I said, was a counselor in town. And she had a 
lot of lesbian friends, and felt much more free  to have  them when I 
hadn't felt it. I had just left coaching when she and I got together. 
That first eight years of me being out, I was putting my toe in the 
water here and there and starting to do things, but not a lot. But 
yes, definitely. I mean,  far more than I had been before. And it was 
fun. It was great. It was interesting to go from the world I knew  to 
all of a sudden being in a room of my people. And there is 
something about that. I'm not a segregationist and I'm, but I think 
there's something about safe spaces for women and for men, and I  
think there are safe spaces for black people, and for Native 
Americans. I think we need to allow people to meet where they see 
themselves, that's legit.  
Raiskin: There were some restaurants that people go to like L & L Market.  
Rees: L & L was a hotbed for lesbian breakfasts. Yes.  
Long: Where was that?  
Rees: I did know about that. On Willamette Street.  
Raiskin: It's where Bier Stein  is.  
Rees: Yeah, the Bier Stein  now. But what a happy memory! We're smiling 
at that, and it's gone. And part of it is, in a way do we need it 
anymore? We used to need to create spaces where we could go 
safely and gather and see each other. And it's a real loss, though, 
that we don't have L & L anymore, because I don't think we see 
each other as much anymore. And we certainly don't in groups as 
much, you have to go out of your way to participate in your 
community.  
Long: I guess that's a consequence of mainstreaming.  
Rees: Absolutely. Well, it's like I said, with Title IX, there were the 
unintended consequences of coaches and administrators losing 
their jobs. We didn't know that was going to happen. It's the same 
thing with mainstreaming, is that as things have gotten healthier  
for individuals, for the groups, you have to go out of your way and 
seek out the experiences where you're in a room of lesbians.  
Raiskin: Has marriage equality changed your life in any way?  
Rees: Well, it came too late for me,  I believe. I've had what I would think 
of as three significant relationships. I think if we’d had marriage 
equality, I might still be in my first one. That's the first way it 
impacted me. My first partner was not out to her family while we 
were together.  She was a high school teacher, didn't  feel like she 
could be. She has since won the Harvey Milk Award in Corvallis. 
But we were well past our relationship and we were on a different 
pace for coming out. So marriage inequality negatively impacted 
my life, not having the social support and resources to navigate the 
bumps and the challenges of marriage. It's easier to step away than  
if you're married. And think, Well, you know,  let's figure this out. 
We took a vow.  When you're just girlfriends, it's like, get your 
couch out of my living room. And  it's easier to do. I have a little 
anecdote for you though. I feel like I'm the answer to a trivia 
question, because I've never been married, but I'm  legally divorced. 
My last partner and I became domestic partners on the day that 
domestic partnership became legal in Oregon. We went down to 
the courthouse and stood in line and we got our domestic 
partnership. But we have since split, and so now that there is legal 
marriage, equal marriage, to dissolve a domestic partnership, you 
have to get a divorce. So, never married, once divorced.   
Long: That’s so bizarre.  
Rees: I mean, they get  you coming and going, right? It cost me $60 to get 
partnered and about $300 - $500 to get divorced. Unbelievable.  
Raiskin: I'm wondering. I have a couple of more questions. Does being 
lesbian affect your experience of aging?  
Rees: Well, I think it will. Because back to the marriage situation, one of 
my partners and I tried to adopt for a number of years, it didn't 
work out. We were doing open adoption.  I think we were more a 
sideshow, than going to be  really chosen. We had some nibbles, but 
didn't get chosen. I don't have children. I personally was never 
going to carry a child, but I was hopeful that a partner would or 
could adopt. And so not having the stability of marriage— Also, I 
didn't ever get or continued to pursue parenting. So, in that I will 
be single and without family as I age. That's going to be an issue. I 
haven't given a lot of thought of how being an elderly lesbian will 
impact me. I can't imagine that it won't, because we're still dealing 
with issues, if not on the huge, or still national level, we're still 
dealing with issues over time, but I think, as I think about this, and 
I haven't thought a lot about it until your question, I think the  
inability to get married will impact my aging more than just being a 
lesbian will, but I don't know until I experience it.  
 I haven't known many older lesbians. And so I haven't asked them 
the question or thought to ask that question. The older lesbians,  
even some that I think I know are older lesbians, don't call  
themselves that still. I know a couple that have probably lived 
together for forty  years, who refer to themselves as roommates. 
And I don't think they're roommates, I think they're together. But  
that's where their comfort is. I'm in a different generation than that. 
And so hopefully it will be better than that. But I don't know.  
Raiskin: You don't have a lot of role models.  
Rees: I don't have a lot of role models. Yeah, that's a good point. But I 
also would have liked to have had children, and I just— because 
that didn't work out for me. I think about my siblings' children. 
And I think, we grow up having some sense that will take care of 
our parents, but I don't think we grew up thinking we're going to 
take care of our aunts and uncles. I think my nieces and nephew do 
have a sense that I hope they'll be there for me. But I've nurtured 
those relationships over time as if they were my children. I think I'll 
have the benefit of their care if I  need it. But that's something you 
can't count on. Definitely being an older lesbian has absolutely 
informed how I have planned my financial life, my retirement. It's 
even how I managed the end of my last relationship, was thinking 
about being an older lesbian and what that meant to me, and not 
having children to take care of me. It's definitely defined how I've 
managed my financial picture.  
Long: What kind of decisions did you make that were reflected by that?  
Rees: Well, I hope I've ensured that I'll be able to afford Long Term Care 
if necessary, because I'm not moving into my kids homes, right? So  
when I can't cook for myself, I don't want my nieces and nephews 
to have to pay for my care unless they want to,  but I'm not counting 
on it. I hope I've set myself up so that I can get care without 
impacting their home lives. I've also set it up so that I hope I leave 
them something. I want to be a positive financial piece for them.  
 I've always wished that simple rich relative would die and leave 
me something. Never happened. I want to be that person  for my 
siblings' kids. I have  great relationships with them. If somebody 
were to have handed me $25,000, I would remember that person 
fondly all my life. I know that's a bit bizarre, but I have that in my 
head, I think they will take care of me some. And, I want to give 
them something when I go. I have it set up so that they are the 
direct beneficiaries of anything I have left when I die.  
Rees: Can you imagine what it might be like to be a lesbian in assisted 
living or retirement homes or the range of choices that are available 
for older people?  
Rees: I just wonder if you don't just go back into a closet. Are we 
talking— I mean, I hope that we're talking about our lives in 
meaningful ways then. I mean, I intend to, I don't feel like I'm 
going to go back into a closet. But I wonder if there's a point of 
what you— Do we quit talking about those kinds of things? And 
we're talking about the jello, for dessert or, we're talking about the 
crafts we're going to do the next— I'm not sure. My experience, I 
actually worked in elder care when I was in high school. For some  
months, I worked in an elder care facility. And it seemed to me that 
the folks there talked about why they were there. They talked about 
their illnesses that they were experiencing, or their lack of familial 
support. And those were the main things in their lives.  
Long: Was that more of a nursing home though, rather than a retirement 
center?  
Rees: Yes, it was.  
Long: Because I could see maybe a group of women would go into a 
retirement center where you could still have a vibrant life and do 
activities on your own direction, and develop a community.  
Rees: Yeah, and that could be a cool thing. That could be something 
that— a place that I could land. I'm a fairly social person.  
Raiskin: I do wonder  about, like,  Cascade Manor. What would you like to 
be? I don't know any lesbians there or any out people.  What would 
you like to be an out lesbian in your eighties at Cascade Manor?  
Rees: Well, I'm going to find out because the women in my family live 
into their  ‘90s, and I'm not going back into anybody’s closet, and  I 
don't own one anymore. I’ll bet it continues to be a part of the 
conversation because I bet even as we continue in those parts of our 
lives, we're going to continuously come across people who haven't 
either availed themselves the opportunity to get to know some gays 
and lesbian people, or haven't acknowledged the people in their 
families—  
Raiskin: Including our health care  professionals.  
Rees: Yes. 
Raiskin: As we deal with more and more doctors.   
Rees: And I'm continually coming out to health care professionals. That's 
a part of my interview process if I have to get into health care 
professional, because I had a very hurtful and very bad experience 
once. One of the most painful experience of being a lesbian was 
with a health care professional in this community. And so I 
ensure— 
Raiskin: Can you  talk about that?  
Rees: I will talk about that. I ensure that every health care professional I 
meet and I'm going to support their career is going to support me 
in every aspect of my needs, in terms of health.  
I land on the androgynous to butch side of the spectrum. I love 
femininity and most of its forms, but don't feel an ounce of it in my 
body or in my psyche, or in my reality, in my choices, femininity is 
just not something I identify with. And I was born with larger 
breasts than I have now. About 1912, well, I've been  thinking about 
it for years but in— 1912! I'm not that old.  
 In 2012, I started looking for a doctor to get a breast reduction, 
significant breast reduction. And I identify as a woman, but I 
wanted to identify as a woman with much smaller breasts. It was   
just going to be more comfortable for me and who I am in my head 
and my heart and so I got a reference from my primary care 
physician who was wonderful woman, who said, oh yeah, you 
should totally do this, and encouraged me and sent me to a guy 
here in town. And I set up an appointment, and in the phone 
intake, I mentioned my partner, Emma.  
 And she and I got to the first appointment with this person and 
didn't get past the desk. The women who were in charge of meeting 
patients had been given the task of making sure no lesbians got 
past this desk. And they didn't say it in those terms, but I will 
guarantee you everything that I hold dear, I will bet that they said 
such ridiculous things as we don't have an appointment for you. 
And I said, "Well, yeah, actually you do." And I could explain back 
to them the full conversation I had with on the intake interview.  
 And, Emma was with me, she was going with me, with this 
experience. So first they pretended that I wasn't on the calendar. 
Then I explained to them  I was on I had talked to Sally, the woman 
that does their scheduling. Let's get Sally out here. Sally came out 
from behind the curtain. And then by the time I was done with 
them, there were three women standing there.  I never saw the 
doctor. There were  three women standing there, and they then 
pretended to go into my file and say, “Oh, yes. Oh, yes, I see now 
we have you here. Sorry, you didn't make it to the calendar. But the 
doctor has stated that you're not a good candidate for surgery.”   
Long: Without seeing you?  
Rees: I'm fifty-eight  years old, I'm an athlete. I'm healthy. As the next 
doctor told me, “You're like the best candidate for surgery.” And so 
they lied. And they did everything they could to say, “We're not 
treating you.” And I guarantee you it's because I said my partner is 
Emma. And I had her with me. And they were prepared to turn me 
away, and they did. And I was so shut down and so hurt, and part 
of it was because by that time my walls were down. I was out and 
proud and supported in my work and my family. I live in Eugene 
because it's a safe place. And it's a bit of a bubble in some ways.  
 I've had opportunities to live other places, and I've not taken them, 
because I know what I have here. And then boom, I got hit with 
that, that level of homophobia. And it was a pain. I just didn't 
remember, I hadn't experienced in years. And I could barely 
breathe that day. I went back to work, but I was there for a little 
while just looking at the walls and I left. I just couldn't hardly even 
function. I just didn't think that was happening here anymore. But 
it's happening still in places. And probably here. I mean, I think the 
guy is still practicing. Anyway, I found another practitioner and I 
had a breast reduction, and I have felt more myself since 2012 than 
I did the whole rest of my life.  
 And back to my mother who had a little bit of a disappointing 
reaction when I came out to her when I told her I was  gay— and 
she was the last person I told I was going to get breast reduction,  
because she doesn't quite get being gay on every level, but she's 
been loving and fully supportive, mostly supportive. And I told her 
I was getting a breast reduction. She said, "Oh, honey, I wish you 
had done that thirty  years ago." Like mom, I wish we'd have talked 
more genuinely thirty  years ago, because she would have 
supported me knowing that my big boobs were not a help to my 
athletic career. They occasionally got in  the way. I mean, you 
learned how to compete around them, and I would have liked to 
have competed without them. I feel like my body is more who I am 
authentically now, and no thanks to this guy in Eugene.  
Long: What has been your greatest joy about being an out lesbian in 
Eugene?  
Rees: Wow, that's a good question. I think we all, on our journeys, strive 
to know who we are, understand what our opinions are and our 
thoughts and our beliefs and our loves and our values. And I think 
we're— I like to think I'm learning all the time and still developing 
and learning. But part of our journey as humans seems to be 
figuring out who we are and where we fit, and what is the best 
version of ourselves. And living in Eugene allowed me eventually, 
to be on that path, and to break down the walls that I had built.  
 My niece calls it having a armor. We walk around with  our armor 
up so much. And Eugene  has allowed me to be out and mostly safe. 
I've experienced some homophobia in this town besides the jerk in 
the medical office, I've experienced other things. But I haven't felt  
that much  that my life was in danger. I think the greatest thing is to 
be able to join the rest of the world and finding my authentic self 
finding my true voice. Actually, I would say that being a lesbian 
has completely added to the richness of my life. Because my stories 
are different than most of my family. My experiences are different, 
and they're interested in them, and they love me for who I am. And 
they want to hear my stories. Sometimes, something will happen at 
a family outing, and I will mention how that impacts me as a 
lesbian, and I can  almost see them get quiet and like, “Tell me.” 
And there's this welcoming space. And I feel them, they have the 
pain when I tell about hurtful situations, they experience the pain 
with me. And in a way my life is richer, because it's different. I 
wouldn't  have said that thirty  years ago, but I know it's true now is 
that— I understand the straight world because it's most of what my 
role models have been, and what you see in movies and 
magazines— I get it.  
 I understand the man's world, because as women it's mostly what 
we see, we see the men in power positions, and when you're— 
where I'm going with this, is when you're a part of a minority, you 
see the majority world from a perspective that they don't see it. 
And it does add richness along with some of the problems it adds. 
But, I feel like I understand the world better than my straight 
family do, because they don't see it from an objective viewpoint. 
They see it from places of privilege, and I have life that's from a 
place of privilege to being white, being  middle class, working on a 
university campus, there's a great deal of privilege in my life, but  
being a lesbian has opened my eyes to discrimination, and what it's 
like to be the minority.  
 And so I have a great deal of empathy for every other minority. 
And I feel like I can see what privilege looks like, and I can be in 
tune with my own privilege better because I'm in tune with the rest 
of my family's privilege or my friends’ privilege. There's a richness 
there that, I think you've got to embrace and be glad for.  
Long:  Thank you, Peg, this has been fabulous.   
Rees: Thank you.  
Long: Really appreciate it.  
Raiskin:  Wonderful.  
Rees: Thanks for the opportunity to talk. It's healing.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  