
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives.  This 
is an oral history interview with Toby Finkelstein on August 1, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording 
studio, in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Toby, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project, and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Finkelstein:  Yes I do.   
Long: Thank you. Let's just begin with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us where you were born, where you grew up, and something 
about your early background?  
Finkelstein:  Okay. I was born in 1946 right after World War II, and in Brooklyn 
New York, to George and Sylvia Finkelstein. I grew up in a 
predominantly Jewish neighborhood called Crown Heights. My 
early childhood was, well, this is how I remember it. It was in black 
and white. My early childhood was— it was like we’d go to the 
country in the summer and it would be in color, and then we'd go 
back to the city and it would be in black and white.  
 I went to public school. I walked to public school and friends in the 
neighborhood, friends in the building even, my world was very, 
very small. It was a city block.  
Long: Why do you say black and white when you got back to your home?  
Finkelstein:  Oh, because it wasn't a lot of greenery, and everything was 
concrete and people even were— truly it was black and white in 
racial tones, too, because it was a white neighborhood, and then at 
a certain point, there was a whole exodus of Jews, and an influx of 
African American or Haitian American people who came to the 
neighborhood. It was one of the sad things that I remember. I was a 
late teenager when that all happened, but it impacted me. I was 
embarrassed that my family fled to not live with people of color, 
but it was what was  happening then. But, the people who stayed 
were Hasidic Jews and then you might have read in the news there  
was all that about the Jews— there was a murder or something. It 
was bad. There was a lot of conflict in Crown Heights.  
Raiskin:  Sisters, brothers?  
Finkelstein:  I have a sister. Her name's Judy, like you. She was five and a half 
years older than me, and we had an abusive relationship. She was 
the older sister and she was cruel to me. I guess, she'll never see 
this, but she knows it too, and she even apologized. But, both my 
parents worked. My father was a cab driver and my mother 
worked as an assistant to a— she was like a bookkeeper. We lived 
in a one bedroom apartment until I was probably in the third 
grade, and then we moved to a two bedroom apartment in the 
same house. Very small, little life.  
Raiskin: What were your high school years like?  
Finkelstein:  High school. Well, let's see. Do I remember them? Well, what I 
remember about high school is mostly hanging out with friends. I 
went to Erasmus Hall High School, which is on Flatbush Avenue. It 
was the oldest school maybe in New York, I don't know. There's an 
old building in the middle, that was, George Washington, I don't 
know if he slept there, but he was around during that time. It was 
very old, but the rest of the building was a little newer, but it was 
architecturally some kind of something.  
 But, what I remember is, I would walk, I walked a lot in New York. 
I think people do, but I took public transportation a lot too, and 
we'd walk down Flatbush Avenue and walk back and forth. It was  
like the cruise or something. If there's any classes I remember, not 
really. What I do remember about my— I was a B student, but in 
those days, people took diet pills a lot and so I took diet pills and I 
remembered how smart I felt when I took them.  For every test, I 
took some diet pills and I ended up scoring really good on my 
PSATs and went to a free college. It's kind of embarrassing, but it 
all evolved into my life, because I got to go to Hunter College and  
went there.  
Long: That's in Manhattan.  
Finkelstein:  Yes it is.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Finkelstein:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Long:  When did you know you were a lesbian?  
Finkelstein:  Well, for real, I knew it when I moved out of New York and I was 
living on a communal farm. It was called Dragon Wagon— no, no, 
sorry, that's wrong. I knew before that. But, I was hanging out with 
the women from Dragon Wagon, and I would have such a good 
time with them. We would sing and dance. And then, I was in a 
heterosexual abusive relationship and it would be like I'd go back 
to it and think, "Whoa, this is not fun. This is bad. Oh, this is so 
much fun," and I went to this festival, women's festival and it was 
there that I said, "I want to be a lesbian," because somebody said to  
me, said, "You're not straight," and I thought it was the best 
compliment I ever got.  
Raiskin:  What's this organization that you, this place that you spent a lot of 
time with lesbians at, what was that called? The Red— 
Finkelstein:  The Dragon Wagon.  
Long: Dragon Wagon.  
Finkelstein:  Yeah. And then it changed— 
Long: It was a bar?  
Finkelstein:  No, no, it was a communal farm in Missouri.  
Long: Oh, okay.  
Finkelstein:  Yeah, see, I knew some lesbians when I lived in New York. When I 
left New York with my boyfriend at the time, we traveled around 
the country trying to find a new home, and we stopped at Dragon 
Wagon, because I had a friend who I was a welfare worker with, 
and she sat in front of me, and I visited her and we liked that farm. 
And then, we broke up, and we moved back there. We broke up 
and I moved in and spent three years on that farm. And, I came 
out.  
Raiskin: Just to back up to college for a minute, what years were you in 
college?  
Finkelstein:  1963 to '69.   
Raiskin: And, what was that like?  
Finkelstein:  Well, that was the emerging radical time, although it hadn't really 
hit my school that much, because I was going to an all women's  
school at the time. First year is when they decided to have boys 
come to Hunter. And, it was a city college, so that was unusual, but 
it had the history of being an all women's school. There were very 
few men there, really. What did you ask?  
Raiskin: What your college experience was like, it being all women. Was 
that interesting to you? What was it like when the men came?  
Finkelstein:  Oh, you know, it was very minimal. Yeah. Well, it was a city 
college, so I commuted to school, so it was an hour and a half each 
way, and I rode the train, so it was really almost like going to high 
school for me. It was pretty much the same, except I had some 
really good teachers. I had two instructors that really made an 
impact on me.  
Long: Did your parents encourage you  to go to college?  
Finkelstein:  Well, I think my mother— I was the first in my family to go to 
college, so it was unusual. My mother probably liked it. My father 
didn't think it was necessary. He had no education. He didn't even 
graduate from elementary school, I don't think. I think maybe he 
had an eighth grade education. And, my mother almost had a high 
school education.  But, she was curious. She liked history. She read 
a lot.   
Long: Were they born in New York? Did you already talk about that?  
Finkelstein: No, they were. They're first generation. They were both born in 
New York or Brooklyn, I can't remember.  
Long: Okay.  
Finkelstein:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: What did you know about Eugene, back when you were traveling 
around?  
Finkelstein:  Not much. No, because New York is very myopic, I guess. There's 
New York and California, and something in the middle, but who 
knows what that is. And so, that's where we traveled from, New 
York, and through that we went through Missouri where I had a 
friend, and then we went to California and I thought I was going to 
live in California, and then we moved back to Missouri. But, how I 
ended up in Eugene was, I had lived in Missouri for three years, 
and it was a great life. We lived on the farm. We ate what we grew 
and we had animals and each one of us had to go out and make a 
living every once in a while, but I think the place was paid for or 
something, and it wasn't a lot of money that we had to conjure up, 
but it was  meager times. And, I thought, Well, I better leave and 
make my way economically somehow.  
 My friend, you might remember, Clare  Kinberg, so she lived on the 
farm, too, and so together we traveled in the way you traveled  
then, which is you drove people's cars cross country. I don't know. 
I don't know if they do that anymore.  
Long: As a service to get the car from one place to the other?  
Finkelstein:  Yes, yes.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Finkelstein:  And so, I guess you paid for gas. I'm not  even sure about that. We 
drove a car, and we had friends in Seattle and then we went  down, 
and her brother was Myron Kinberg, who was the rabbi here. And, 
when we came to Eugene to visit, the referendum that was on the 
ballot was 51, which was a Eugene measure that was about— well, 
the local government said, got it on the books that you can't 
discriminate against gays in employment and housing, and then 
some other group, I can't remember the name of it now, I don't 
think it was the OCA, but it was a little earlier, but they put it on 
the ballot and that's when I came through. So, it was on  the ballot— 
Raiskin: What was on the ballot was the— 
Finkelstein:  To take away those rights. Yes, to take away those rights. You'd 
walk around and there'd be people with buttons saying “What do 
gay people want, ask me.” And so, everybody was out. You could 
visibly see them. And, I was so excited, and then you'd walk 
around and everybody had signs on their lawn. It was just— I 
thought, "Oh my goodness." I was from Missouri at that point,  
where we were the only lesbians living among a very— I don't 
know, it was very Christian back there  too.  
 They didn't know what to make of us at all. So, here I am, and I'm 
so excited, and I even got to vote. I don't know how that happened, 
but you could register and vote. It was an off election. It was May 
of 1978. I voted and the measure got defeated, of course, as history 
said. But, there was this vigil and it was at the Eugene Hotel at the 
time, and— 
Raiskin: I just want to clarify that the measure, which was to revoke the 
rights— 
Finkelstein:  Passed.  
Raiskin: And that the discrimination was revoked.  
Finkelstein:  Right. The discrimination— 
Raiskin: The anti-discrimination was revoked.  
Finkelstein:  So, discrimination was upheld.  
Raiskin: Yeah.  
Finkelstein:  At the Eugene Hotel, there was a whole vigil and everybody was 
there. Myron Kinberg was speaking because he was involved in 
that, and it was a room, hundreds, and hundreds of people who 
were supportive of gays. And, it was like, wow, so wonderful. And 
then, we had a candlelight vigil. I think I had some vigils that were 
at people's houses in the backyard and it was just so wonderful.   
 So, after I left, I decided to come back after— I came back in 
December. I come back to the same town and it's winter here, 
which is really different than summer here, and the measure had 
passed, failed, whatever, it's so confusing. And so, people were 
more closeted again. Not too much, but a little bit more, not as 
much as they were before, and I just felt like, "Wow, what 
happened?" And, it was winter, and rainy, but I stayed anyhow, 
and I made friends easily, because a lot of people had been just 
infiltrating in.  
Raiskin: Where did you meet people?  
Finkelstein:  I met them at the bar, pretty much, I think, or I also volunteered to 
work at Mother Kali's, which was the feminist bookstore, co-op 
owned. I volunteered, met several friends there.  
Raiskin:  What was that bookstore like?  
Finkelstein:  It was great. It was the hub for people getting together, learning 
about lesbianism, feminism. It was  left wing. It was great. It was a 
great little bookstore.  
Long: Where was it located at that time?  
Finkelstein:  It was located on Blair and Fifth.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Finkelstein:  And, next door was an auto shop, and we shared a disgusting 
bathroom. And then right next door was this place called Zoo  
Zoo's, which was a restaurant, a natural foods restaurant, and the 
whole neighborhood, which is the Whiteaker neighborhood, which 
has become groovy again. It was really nice, and I lived in that 
neighborhood as  well.  
Long: When you lived here, at that time, what did you do for a living?  
Finkelstein:  Let's see. I tried to get work. Well, one of the reasons that I moved 
here is that there were all these co-ops. There were Surata Soy 
Foods, Starflower, Crescent Construction. There was all these 
alternative businesses that were small.  
Raiskin:  Were they women owned?  
Finkelstein:  Mostly. Not all, but it was a whole explosion of them really. I went 
the route and almost got a job in most  of them, but then I ended up 
creating my own house painting business, which is interesting, 
because my partner now does that. I got a few jobs. I wasn't the 
best house painter. I was fast and sloppy. But, I had a partner who 
was slow and precise, so she backed me up. So, the people were not 
unhappy.  
 But then, I got a job at Nancy's Yogurt, and that sustained me for 
about three years. I was working on the fruit crew, we called 
ourselves, because we put the little packages of— we cooked all the 
fruit, and then we put the little packages of fruit. Three women 
were doing that two days a week, or three days a week, and it was 
enough to survive on, because I don't know, I don't know how we  
did it, but I guess the economy was different then, and you could 
do that. 
Long: Where did you live? Did you have housemates?  
Finkelstein:  I did have some house mates and I did move around a lot. I don't 
know why, but I lived on Elkay Drive in a back house of 
somebody's— I did live collectively in the '80s in this nice house on 
Fifth Street. Yeah, I moved around a lot. My mom said she had to 
put my address in pencil, whereas other people had pen.  
Raiskin: What did it feel like to be, for you, in a community at that time?  
Finkelstein:  That was great. It was so great. It was just, yeah, I just loved it.  
Raiskin: Can you describe a typical weekend or— 
Finkelstein:  Well, there was always events happening, or we'd go to the bar. 
Plus, I was young and so full of energy. Gee, yeah, it was fun. There 
was a lot happening. I was involved in kung fu, which was called 
Amazon Kung Fu and I did that for several years.  
Raiksin: How old were you during this time?  
Finkelstein:  I was in my early thirties. Yeah, yeah, because I came out when I 
was twenty-eight, part of my Saturn cycle. I don't know if you 
know about that. But, I really came out pushing and screaming 
against it. I don't know why. All the evidence proved I was, but I 
just was resistant because of my own homophobia I suspect. And  
then, when I finally came out, I was at peace and it felt right. I felt 
like I was home. I was home in myself. I was home.  
Raiskin: Do you remember what it felt like that— those feelings of 
homophobia, what you imagined lesbians were, why you didn't 
want to be one?  
Finkelstein:  It had a lot to do with men, because I loved my father and a lot of 
the movement was separatist, and I was a separatist, so I had 
conflict, because I had two men in my life that were very nice and 
sweet, my father and an old boyfriend, and so, for me there was 
conflict about rejecting all of that. But, the positive part was we 
were creating something new that had values that were much more 
progressive, and good.  
Raiskin: What did you know about the lesbian land in southern Oregon?  
Finkelstein:  Well, when I visited, I connected with that because I was on lesbian 
land in Missouri, and they were all connected through these 
magazines, Country Women. Just like when I grew up in New York, 
my world was very small, my lesbian world was only connected in 
dots but that was my world. I didn't really even know the rest 
existed anymore. It was just the world we were creating.  
Raiskin: Did you find that there were conflicts in the community at the 
time?   
Finkelstein:  There were class conflicts, I think. I think those were vocalized. 
There was some race exclusion that was talked about. Eugene tried 
their best, considering the demographics. 
Raiskin: Coming from a working class family, how did you experience those 
class conflicts in the lesbian community?  
Finkelstein:  I was resentful. I saw them as privileged and not understanding the 
world as I saw it. I applied to Starflower. I ended up working at 
Starflower and I got in through a girlfriend, but before that, I 
applied and— grueling interviews there. They were just terrible. 
They were.  
Long: What did they ask you?  
Finkelstein:  Oh, they asked you a lot of questions, like who you would hire if 
you were there. Would you hire men? Would you not hire men? It 
was just a very difficult interview. I had one interview there where 
I actually cried, because they said, "Well, what kind of work did 
you do in the past?" And I said, "Shit jobs." And they said, "We 
can't hear you." And I said, "Shit job."  
 I didn't get that job, which is interesting because later— [oops, this 
is moving—gestures to the tablecloth], because later I ended up, my 
job at Lane Community College was training people how to 
interview, and get a job. I might have even told that story, how not 
to do it, but that was one thing I experienced. But anyhow, after I 
got rejected, yeah, I'm getting back there. After I was rejected, I 
wrote a scathing letter to them all. It was all about class, because I  
was very outraged. I said, "You're like the sorority girls on the hill 
who were rejecting me” and they posted it on the wall.  And I don't 
know how I ever got a job there later, but I did.  
Long: And, what year was this, when you first applied to Starflower?  
Finkelstein:  That would be '80, something like that, '80, '81, '82. I think I finally 
started working there in '83 or before. And, I started as a packager 
of herbs, which was very fun. I liked doing that. I like manual 
labor. But then, I became in the sales department. For some reason, 
I've always been fairly good with computers and we had this big, 
old, ancient mainframe. We did sales over the phone. People 
ordered, co-ops ordered and businesses ordered.  
Long: So, what was it like working in a feminist co-op, largely lesbian, 
organization?  
Finkelstein:  Well, a lot of people remember it as wonderful. I remember it as 
grueling. I enjoyed the atmosphere, but the meetings were horrible.  
Long: Why?  
Finkelstein:  Because we were built on consensus and so they would belabor 
things to death. I say they and not we, because I couldn't do it. I just 
hated the meetings. But, I loved all the people there.  
Long: And, my understanding is that as a co-op, that everybody got paid 
the same wage.   
Finkelstein:  Perhaps, at one point. At the end, that changed. We had a hierarchy 
of management and workers and supervisors, which might have 
been part of its demise. The demise was political because it was 
during Reaganomics and our vendors were starting to get more 
corporate rather than— help me. Rather than small, small 
businesses. And then, those vendors didn't want to give us leeway, 
or whatever that is, lead time, because we were a middle— we 
purchased from the distributors, the growers or distributors, and 
then sold to smaller businesses. And so, the exchange of money 
would come when they paid us, and then we'd pay them. 
Something happened and that got disrupted.  
Long: What kind of products did Starflower distribute?  
Finkelstein:  Natural foods, we did bulk grains, cheeses, and the herb 
department, boxed things. It was all natural or organic, and it was 
early in the time before they were at the big supermarkets, and so 
that was the only way that people actually got that kind of food. 
We had our own truckers who  were mostly women who drove to— 
oh I don't know if they drove to Seattle, because Seattle had its own 
thing, but down to California, either to pick up product and then 
bring it back, or drive to the stores.  
Raiskin:  A lot of women were doing non-traditional  work for women, and 
what was the attitude about butch/fem in relationships and about 
taking on more masculine occupations. How did people feel all the 
aspects?   
Finkelstein:  Yeah, that was a fact. We bought into butch/fem and it was a 
reality. 
Raiskin:  Could you describe that more?  
Finkelstein:  Well, one thing is that butch was considered better than fem. And 
so, at that time, I was all into flannel shirts and trying to butch it up 
as best I could, but I realized that I wasn't a butch. I am a very 
capable person, and so that part I can do. I can fix things, and I'm 
interested in how things work, and I never drove the truck. I really 
was not that comfortable in non-traditional work, except for the 
painting. So, most of the things that I did were a little bit more 
traditional, like sales, marketing,  graphic design, a little bit more 
mainstream, regular for women.  
Raiskin: It's interesting at that time about butch/fem performance and 
identity, given the feminist lesbian  separatism.  
Finkelstein:  Yeah, that's true.  
Raiskin: I wonder if there's some conflict or issues in the community about 
that, how to think about that?  
Finkelstein:  I don't know if there was conflicts in the community. It was the 
values. Some people didn't want to identify as butch and fem, and 
they weren't. So, there you go. But, some  did and there was a— 
yeah, I would say that that was an existing thing. And, a lot of 
people, even when I moved to Eugene, because on the farm we 
didn't talk about butch/fem, and with thought that was an old  
concept. And then, coming here, we figured out that we were 
negating our history if we discarded that.  
Long: I'd like to ask about your social networks, just even within Eugene.  
Finkelstein:  Oh good.  
Long: How would you communicate with other women to organize a 
gathering, plan an event, what have you. Did you mainly use the 
telephone, the landline to call people?  
Finkelstein:  I think we did, but we did a lot of fliers and posters. I think that 
was a big communication thing, putting them up all over the place. 
In fact, that's what I brought in my book  some of the fliers that I 
created for different events or for— yeah, I think it was a lot of 
word of mouth.  
Long: Word of mouth.  
Finkelstein:  But, probably telephone or just in person, maybe at the bar, you'd 
communicate. It was way before cellphones, Internet and any of 
that.  
Long: There must have been parties, people— 
Finkelstein:  Lots of parties.  
Long: Was there somebody who was an organizer for those events, that 
you would look to as organizing, or  was everybody involved in 
creating that?   
Finkelstein:  No, there were some organizers, but I can't remember who they 
were. Sally and Enid  were big— we had this community of Jewish 
lesbians and we called ourselves Baleboostehs, and we would do 
events, Passover Seders, the Hanukkah parties, whatever. And so, 
they were maybe leaders in that area, and some other areas too. 
There was music and entertainment, but I think there was some 
people who did production. I can't remember who did that, maybe 
Laura Philips, I'm not sure. Yeah.  
Raiskin: We haven't heard a lot about music.  
Finkelstein:  Oh no?  
Long:  Yeah. Do you remember women's music or concerts or— 
Finkelstein:  Yes. Yes. There was. There was women's music on KLCC and that 
was once a week.  
Raiskin: That's the local radio station?  
Finkelstein:  Local radio station, thank you. And, I think we brought people to 
town and yeah.  
Raiskin: Enid  did a women's music night.  
Finkelstein:  That's right. Yeah. Right. And, we had dances. I think mostly it was 
parties. And then, they became fundraising parties for some cause 
or another.  
Long: There are different levels of being out.   
Finkelstein:  Yes. 
Long: So, within your community, you're out to your friends and 
coworkers, but then just generally in Eugene, did you want to 
always announce yourself? How was that done?  
Finkelstein:  Right. For me, that was still kind of an issue. When I worked at 
Lane Community College, I was out to all my coworkers, but I was 
not always out to my students, and I was teaching a class and I 
decided to come out, which was always a scary thing. And, I was 
received very positively.  
Raiskin: What were you afraid of in coming out to the class?  
Finkelstein:  That they would not like me or that they would judge me. The 
times weren't all that supportive, even though we were supportive 
of each other, the times were not. Once, we had a float in the 
Eugene parade and I was nervous. But, as we were going down the 
streets, there was some applause for us, because we were just a 
minor group. It was really before it emerged as a presence, I think.  
Long:  What was the float about though? Just being a part of a gay 
organization? Or was it one of the ballot measures?  
Finkelstein:  Well, it could've been, but the one I remember doing was more like 
we are everywhere. We're historians. We're activists. We're this, 
and I think we  pretended to be different things in history.  
Raiskin: What was your job at Lane Community College?   
Finkelstein:  I was an advisor for a program through the workforce network, 
which gave scholarships to people who were unemployed or 
between jobs.  
Long:  Was  that the Women in Transition?  
Finkelstein:  No, they were just women and we were the unemployed of Lane 
County. Yeah. But, this, sometimes they mixed. But, we gave 
scholarships, so we helped pay for some of their training or their 
education, and I advised them on job search and how to write a 
resume and taught classes in computers, just to upgrade people's 
skills. It was a good job. I did it for almost twenty  years.  
Raiskin: What about, how was sexuality understood in the community and 
what kind of relationships were you having at this time?  
Finkelstein:  Oh. Well, non-monogamy  was a big issue. That was one of the big 
issues, not to be a couple, to explore that. There were people who 
said, "Your friends should be your lovers, and your lovers should 
be your friends," so, there was a lot of sexual exploring. Let's just 
say that. And, there was also a brief movement of SM that came 
through the community that, I didn't really want to do it. Having 
been abused, it didn't appeal to me.  But, it appealed to some 
people, and so they did that, but sexuality was open. And then, 
people gradually became couples. This is a pretty couple-y town 
now, I'd say. Yeah.  
Raiskin: And, why do you think it's more couple-y now?   
Finkelstein:  Now? I think people grew up. I don't know. I don't know what the 
younger generation is doing, but they look pretty coupled, and 
now that there's marriage equality, lesbians, gay people are getting 
married. I just got married in December of this year.  
Long: Congratulations.  
Finkelstein:  Thank you.  
Raiskin: How was that, and why did you decide to get married? And who 
did you marry?  
Finkelstein:  Well, I married Aggie, Aggie Agapito. We've been together twenty  
years. We had a daughter we raised and we did our lives together 
and we suddenly decided, "Yeah, let's get married." We didn't run 
on the bandwagon of the people who did it first, as soon as it 
became legal, but it seemed like we want to do it, and then I was 
glad we did. It actually brought us closer. It's interesting.  
Long: Did you go down to the courthouse?  
Finkelstein:  No, we did it at our house and Tova  Stabin, she officiated. We just 
had a few close family around. Maya was in town so— Maya's our 
daughter, and so she was here with a friend and that was pretty 
much it. But, it was really sweet. It was really sweet. We had fun 
planning it, and then we had fun doing it.  
Long: I want to ask you about parenting and— 
Finkelstein:  Oh yeah, that's right.   
Long: And, I'd like to go back to, just for a second, to some of the early 
years in Eugene. I'm wondering if you could describe, or if you 
recall at all what some of the conflicts might have been in  the 
community? Were there some— I don't want to say trouble makers, 
but were there some people who were at odds maybe  with the 
overall group of people?  
Finkelstein:  Inside the community?  
Long: Yeah, in the community.  
Finkelstein:  You know, I don't recall a lot of conflict.  
Long: Okay.  
Finkelstein:  Yeah. There might have been, but I don't really recall a lot of 
conflict.  
Raiskin: Since we're back in the earlier years, what do you remember about 
the ballot measures, 13, 9, 8, 9, all the anti-gay ballot measures?  
Finkelstein:  Well, I wasn't super involved in the ballot measures, but of course, I 
voted and I supported it, and we'd always have a table at the 
events, like the Eugene Celebration or even Lane County Fair or 
something.  
Raiskin: Was it emotionally troubling to you to go through those times, or it 
didn't impact you that much? 
Finkelstein:  It didn't really impact me. It was sort of the roller coaster. Okay, we 
have some rights, no we don't have some rights. It did bother me  
that that was happening. It didn't feel good, but there were 
victories and so that was good.  
Raiskin: So, about parenting in Eugene as a lesbian. Can you tell us about 
that?  
Finkelstein:  Well, I met my partner when she had just adopted her daughter, 
who, at the time we met, I think she was, well, she was an infant. 
And so, I was part of the parenting community, but I was a little 
periphery because I kept myself there. I was afraid to commit to 
being a parent. I wanted to be an auntie, but I ended up being a 
parent.  And, the groups were very supportive, because it was 
important  to have other people like you. In fact, Maya, who's our 
daughter, I think she thinks about all those other kids from the  
lesbian families as siblings— she grew up with them—or cousins, 
or something— something close to family. And, she still has 
relationships with them. I think it was really good. Really good that 
that support was there. And, it was there a few times. There were 
several parenting groups.  
Raiskin:  How were they formed and how many  people were in them? What 
were they called?  
Finkelstein:  Oh, okay, well the first one was called LMNOP, Lesbian Moms da, 
da, da.  
Raiskin:  Lesbian Moms ‘N Other People.   
Finkelstein:  And then, sorry, I keep doing that  [gestures to tablecloth]. Is this 
close enough though?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Finkelstein:  Okay, and then, the group that we were part of was called the 
Rainbow Rascals and I think we met, maybe once a month I'd say, 
maybe more often, but once a month for a potluck and the kids just 
ran wild and played and had fun in different people's houses. 
There was always some agenda to talk about, get involved with. 
There was camping.  
Long: The Labor Day annual camp out.  
Finkelstein:  That's right. That's right. At Honeyman mostly, and just different 
activities for the kids. Going on the pumpkin ride. Just different 
things that were fun for them.  
Raiskin: When you say there was agenda items for the parents, what kind of 
things did the parents talk about, about parenting?  
Finkelstein:  I don't know. I didn't go to  those. But, you know how it is to just 
raising a kid and doing it respectfully. A lot of the kids were 
adopted. Not all, some were biological. Gee, I guess there is issues 
raising kids, and you had support for it. Maybe some of it was 
about being lesbian,  being out.  
Raiskin: Were you involved with Maya's school at all?   
Finkelstein:  A little bit. A little bit. I taught one class on cooking for her French 
class, and that was really fun to do.  
Long: We did want to talk about the topic of aging in the lesbian  
community. Let's just open that for discussion.  
Finkelstein:  Okay. We are aging. That is true. And, also some of the parts start 
breaking down and people have surgery, illnesses, some have died, 
and so it is an awareness. Right now, I think I like to be supportive 
of people who are going through some medical issue, be there for 
them. I do have a background as a CNA in one of my shit jobs as I 
call it. I do have that caregiving aspect to me, and I like to help out, 
because it's a burden for either the partner or if there is no partner, 
that's even harder. I think we're aware of it. I'm on Medicare now, 
and so there's something called Silver Sneakers, or Silver and Fit, 
which is part of some insurance plans on Medicare, and so I see a 
lot of women at the spa, doing exercise classes to try and maintain 
some form of agility.  
Raiskin: How are older women in the community doing economically? A lot 
of people had, as you call, shit jobs or lower wage jobs. How are 
they doing now as people are retiring? 
Finkelstein:  Most of the people retiring and doing quite well, that I see. My 
partner, not so much. Well, because she didn't join the bandwagon 
soon enough to get a good retirement, but yeah, I don't really know 
about the people who aren't doing so— some are just stuck on 
Social Security, and that's not enough. But, a lot of people have  
planned ahead, and some people who didn't have PERS or 
something like that, which I do, but not a great PERS, but it's a 
good enough one, invested money.  I think that there was a whole 
era after our whole lesbian community, where we realized, "Uh oh, 
we better start planning for the future," and got jobs that were 
better paying in positions of responsibility, like in the city or 
different places.  
Raiskin: It's interesting to think about the lesbians of the community, having 
jobs in the city, and running in part Eugene, the city. What kinds of 
jobs did people have?  
Finkelstein:  Oh. Let's see. Well there was the college, and there was people at 
the college in all areas, and  in the city, there's the county, and there 
were people in high positions of personnel, whatever.  
Raiskin: Being a librarian.  
Finkelstein:  Librarians, yeah.  
Long: Did you ever experience discrimination because you were a lesbian, 
or did you ever find yourself in a situation where you felt like you 
were in danger?  
Finkelstein:  No. 
Raiskin:  No? 
Finkelstein:  No. I guess I didn't put myself out there that much. I checked it out 
to see if it was safe. Yeah.   
Long: But, you had a sense to protect yourself.  
Finkelstein:  For sure. For sure.  
Long: If you needed it, you had to protect yourself.  
Finkelstein:  For sure, yeah.  
Long: When you think back about your life in Eugene and  the lesbian 
community, what would you say has been your greatest joy in that 
experience?  
Finkelstein:  I think building this community of values that were social, 
economic. The whole thing being inclusive, having fun. It was, I 
think it was good. It was good. It was very full, lots of people in it.  
Raiskin: Looking to the future, do you see that community thriving as 
everybody ages? Staying as a Eugene lesbian community?  
Finkelstein:  I don't. I don't.  
Raiskin: Why?  
Finkelstein:  Well, because we've isolated ourselves in smaller, tinier groups, 
couples pretty much, and so the community base is still there, but 
not as utilized as it's been and there's always been talk of maybe we 
should do tiny houses and live in community again, but lots of us 
have been in community and it was stressful. That was a stressful 
thing when people lived in community and they didn't agree on 
how to live, how to do the dishes or how to clean, or whatever, 
money.  So, there's resistance to that, but there is hope that we'll  
take care of each other somehow in our aging, and I don't know 
that there's a structure for that. It would be nice. So, there's talk, but 
no action.  
Raiskin: What haven't we asked you about that you would like to tell us?  
Finkelstein:  Let's see. Did we cover all of the things that were happening?  
Raiskin:  What was this comment you made about Myeba's backyard?  
Finkelstein:  Oh yeah. Well, that was the witchy aspect. There's a lesbian 
spiritual aspect to the lesbian community that some participated in. 
We had a thing in her backyard. The night before the vote or 
something like that, one of the votes, and so that was nice. That was 
a meeting of the other lesbians as well.  
Long: About the ballot measures?  
Finkelstein:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: Yeah. What kind of rituals did you do?  
Finkelstein:  Oh, just— I don't know. Open the circle, close the circle, wish for 
something, drum, create energy. Well, I had this experience when I 
was at one of the Baleboosteh  meetings, where there was a peace 
agreement in the Middle East, a temporary peace agreement, and 
then  we went around the room to say how we felt about it, and 
everybody had a slightly different perspective, but together, it was 
so powerful about how we all want to see peace in our lifetime, 
how we all wanted to see peace in the Middle East, how we all  
wanted to see people being able to live together well. And, that was 
the essence of what we were trying to do in the lesbian community.  
Raiskin: If you imagine a younger person watching your— talking about 
your life, is there something specific you'd like them to know about 
Eugene, or about how to live?  
Finkelstein:  Well, I would say— let me think for a sec. I don't know what to say 
to a younger person, except be true to yourself, be loving, be kind, 
reach out to others, don't isolate. Create what you would like to see 
in the world, however you do it. One of the things I remember, 
some people were political. Some people were spiritual. Some 
people did this, and it's okay, whatever path you take, just as long 
as you do take a path that goes somewhere.  
Long:  Thank you so much Toby.  
Finkelstein:  You're welcome. That was fun.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  