Long:  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University 
Archives. This is an oral history interview with Kate Barry  on July 
30, 2019, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO  Library's Special Collections and University 
Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin, of the UO  Department of 
Women's Gender and Sexuality Studies. Kate, please let us know if 
you agree to be recorded  for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Barry:  I do.   
Long:  All right, thank you very much. Let's just start with a basic 
question. Can you please tell us  when and where you were born, 
where you grew up and something about your early background?  
Barry:  Sure. I was born in England, in a little mining town called Stanley, 
in County Durham, which is the northeast of England. It's coal 
country. Grew up and went  to school there. My parents— my dad 
wasn't a miner. My grandfather was a miner and was invalided out 
of the mine with black lung and so my grandmother, my paternal 
grandmother, was determined that her sons wouldn't go down the 
mine. So they trained as electricians, but of course the only work 
was in the mines, so they ended up in the mine anyway. But then 
once electricity was nationalized in England, then there were jobs 
above ground, so my father worked as a lineman, foreman  
electrician above ground.  
Raiskin: What year was he born and what year were you born?  
Barry:  I was born in 1944. My dad was born in— gosh, let me think. He 
was thirty-eight  when I was born, so you can do that math.  
Raiskin:  Okay, yeah, we can do the math.  
Barry:  I don't know that I'm up to doing that math at this moment. I was 
born right at the end of World War II for the Europeans. My father 
was a union organizer and at that point, the electrical trade union 
was CP, Communist Party, so I was very much— the values that 
surrounded me from him were very much values of socialism and 
change and organizing. We had guys stomping around our house  
in big boots calling each other brother, and I cranked the mimeo 
machine down at the union hall.  
 And my mum  was a nurse, at home for part of my childhood, but 
then my dad had a heart attack when I was eight and she went 
back to work. My mum  was an unrepentant working class Tory 
who was very silent during any political discussion, except when 
my dad died when I was fourteen, and right after he died— 
because you know  in England, it's very different from here. All of 
the newspapers have a very distinct political character. You know 
what those are, there's no sort of, what I think of as the pretense of 
objectivity. There's just the mediated subjectivities. Anyway, so our 
newspapers changed. Everything changed as soon as my dad died 
because my mum could kind of come out as the conservative that 
she was.  
 So, I grew up working class, little village, in an extraordinarily 
elitist British education system. When  I grew up, you took a 
national exam at age eleven. It was called the Eleven-plus  and if 
you passed that, you got to go to a school from which you could 
take exams to go to university. If you didn't pass that, that was it, 
you were done. Everybody's future was decided at age eleven  and 
there was really no chance to go to a university if you failed that 
exam. I have a good friend in Portland right now who's also 
English, my friend Eileen, and she failed the Eleven-plus. And this 
is a very, very smart woman. Very well-read, and somewhere deep 
inside she thinks she isn't smart. And so she was  marked by that  
experience. English kids were just limited and marked by that 
experience.  
Raiskin:  And their opportunities changed.  
Barry:  Your opportunities changed drastically and it's a very heavily class-
bound system and you're very conscious of class. It's not like the 
United States where of course there is class, but people don't think 
about it or everybody's something called middle-class. Whereas in 
England, it's just very, very different, even now. Even though it's 
supposed to be more of a so-called meritocracy, it isn't. But even 
now. If I went back to England now, people would hear me speak 
and, first of all, they'd think I was an American until I picked up 
my accent again, but then they would know immediately that I was 
working class origin, went to university. They would know that 
from my speech and I would know that from anybody in England's 
speech. I'd know where they were from, what class they were, what 
education they had. It just marks you. It's one of the attractions of 
coming to the United States, actually, is that, at least on the surface, 
all that dissolves.  
 I mean, I was lucky enough to be the kind of kid who read a lot, 
who could do that visual/auditory learning really easily so passed 
exams and got to university. But at the time I went— and that 
was— we were the first generation to go to university because that 
was— the scholarship system was established after World War II, 
by the Labour Government. My sister, my cousin and I were the 
first in our family. My father left school when he was eleven,  
twelve, to go into an apprenticeship. My mum left school about 
fourteen  to go to nursing school, which is a working class job in 
England. You don't train— at least then, you didn't train to be a 
nurse by going to college. Not a lot of education at all. But I was 
lucky enough to be part of that generation who if you'd got your 
way through those many sets of public examinations, you  got to go 
to university and your way was paid. At that point, in Britain, was 
maybe about six percent  of the population got to go to university. 
An extraordinarily— it's a little better now. It's wider now, but 
extraordinarily elitist and focused and framed, from a very, very 
early age.  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament as a kid?  
Barry:  Oh. What was my— I think it would depend on which member of 
my family you asked. I read a lot. I tended to be the kind of kid 
who— because we had this little terraced house, in a two up, two 
down— like, two bedrooms, four people, toilet's in the backyard.  
There's no inside plumbing. I became adept at being in an armchair 
in the corner reading because I liked to read. But I was also— I 
liked to be outside. I was known as a tomboy. You know, wanted to 
climb trees, didn't want dolls, wanted a train. This memory of my 
father begging me to have a doll when I was about five or six, just 
begging me to have one. "Would you please just have a doll." And 
I'm like, "No, no, no. I  want  a train. I want a train." He did actually 
buy me a train set, which was great. It was really great. So, both 
kind of internal in the sense that I read a lot and thought a lot. My  
mother thought I was a very odd duck because I said I was never 
going to get married, never going to have children. But also 
someone who was kind of in with the boys, pushing and shoving 
and doing things like running across the train tracks in front of the 
train, going out on the ice when you weren't supposed to go on the  
pond, that sort of stuff.  
Raiskin:  That was your elementary school years?  
Barry:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And once you went to middle school?  
Barry:  It's not the same system. Once you pass that exam at eleven, you go 
to three different tiers of schools. The folks who failed— the exam 
had two parts. The folks who failed the first part went to this 
school, which meant you were probably going to go to some kind 
of working class occupation. In the shop for girls, or the factory. 
Maybe a trade for guys if they got into an apprenticeship. If you 
passed the first part and failed the second part— this is just so 
disgusting when you think about it. This is just disgusting. 
Anyway, then you got to go to this middle school where you could 
sit some  exams and go into clerical works. More of a low middle-
class kind of occupation. And then, if you passed both parts you 
got to go to a grammar school and that was the track to university 
to go to that school.  
Raiskin:  And even at that stage was education segregated by sex?   
Barry:  No. No. We weren't segregated by sex. They were segregated by 
uniform. Everybody who went to school after age eleven  had to 
wear the school uniform and you had a certain kind of uniform if 
you were a grammar school kid, and a certain kind of uniform if 
you were the middle kid, and a certain kind of uniform if you were 
like the bottom of the hill kid, you know? And in class, this was 
true, actually, from age five on. In my elementary school in class, 
you sat in the order that you were. So, if you were top of  the class, 
you sat here, all the way down to bottom of the class, number 
thirty-five, over here. And that is where you sat in your elementary 
school desk according to the tests you were doing from age five.  
Raiskin:  Wow.  
Barry:  Yeah, you had to see. Wow.  
Long:  Was there bullying in school then?  
Barry:  Yeah, there was. I think. I mean, I know because I was sitting up at 
this end of the class and— there was a lot of— not a lot, but yeah, 
some bullying, some attempted intimidation, kicks on the stairs, 
that kind of thing. And certainly there was a lot of, once you did 
the Eleven-plus  and went to grammar school and then, again, you 
were in different what they called forms, which is your grade level, 
even then it was clear who was the A form, the B form, and the C 
form. And the A form are the folks who were doing best, and 
again— there's a lot of negativity addressed to you if you were 
doing very well because if you were doing very well, it meant you  
were going to  leave the working class and go to university. 
Therefore, you were not okay. Therefore, you were going to be 
posh. So, there was a lot of that and there was a lot of sexism, 
although I wouldn't have called it that at the time, of course, 
because we're talking about ‘50s and early ‘60s. But a lot of 
negativity expressed towards you if you were a girl and doing well.  
 I think after my first year at the grammar school, I was top of the 
class, whatever, and the headmaster came in and lectured the class 
about why a girl was number one and what was wrong with you 
boys? And this was not okay  and it should not happen. He 
wouldn't use the words “okay”  but, you know. There was a lot of 
stigma attached to you, especially if you were female and doing 
well.  
Raiskin:  And how did you deal with that? What was your feelings about 
that?  
Barry:  Well, I felt diminished. I knew that I was treated differently 
because I was a girl. I didn't have a name for it. I didn't have words 
to talk about that. But I knew that there was difference, I knew I 
was being disparaged, being belittled. I had a physics teacher who 
decided that because I was a girl I needed to be taken down a peg 
or two, and so he would just criticize everything I said. Whenever I 
answered, didn't matter whether it was right, he would find 
something wrong with it and he would just pick on me the whole 
time. And I eventually got to the point in his classroom where I 
eventually stopped speaking, actually. I stopped answering  
questions. I stopped speaking. I started to pretend, oh, maybe I'm 
somewhere else.  That's the way I dealt with it.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. What were your friendships like in these 
later teenage years?  
Barry:  I had some close friendships with girls. I was considered kind of 
persona non grata by boys because I was the bright girl. And at that 
point, I didn't really have any notion of any variance in sexuality at 
all. I'm in this little white working class mining village. I read a lot 
so I knew from literature other things existed.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what you read as a teenager that gave you some 
inkling?  
Barry:  Well, I mean, I'm not sure. I think what I read gave me an inkling 
that there were other existences. I'm not sure how much direct 
education it gave me about my situation. Because I used to read 
nineteenth-century French and Russian literature and some English 
literature and that kind  of thing. I knew there were different ways 
of thinking, different worlds. I was determined to escape the back 
streets of my world. I had a really— this is lots about childhood, is 
this okay?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Barry:  Yeah. I had a really pivotal figure growing up who I adored, who is 
my great-aunt, and she had— Let me think, when was she born? 
She ran away before the First World War. She was probably born a  
little— at 1900. Yeah, at 1900. And when she's about fifteen  or 
sixteen, she ran away from home. She ran away from this little 
village and found her way, somehow, down to the south of 
England, lied about her age and got into nursing school. She never 
married and she, from that point, worked her way up to being a 
sister to a matron of a London hospital during the Blitz, to— when I 
was a child she was the administrative head of nursing for the 
whole north of England.  
Raiskin:  Wow.  
Barry:  She was this extraordinarily glamorous figure to me because she 
drove a car. Ah! cars were non-existent! This is Brit working class in 
the ‘50s. No cars, no cars, no cars. And so she would descend on 
our little village and she'd swoop my sister and I up and off we'd 
go to the city. She'd take us to ballet and she'd take us to these posh 
hotels for tea. "These wee girls need some sandwiches." And she'd 
drive as fast as we wanted her to and go around the roundabouts 
fifty times if that's what we wanted. I just adored her. And so to 
me, she was the symbol of, okay, if you don't marry and have 
children and get rooted  here, you can do other things. I think she 
was my view into the future, in that way.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Did you go to university?  
Barry:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I did. I did. I went to University of 
Durham at  Newcastle. Yeah, I did. I went to medical school 
originally, which was a very, very, poor choice for me, but in the  
English educational system, I mean, nobody's advising you and 
you have— the education is so narrow and focused, by the time 
you're fourteen, you have to narrow your sets of subjects down 
because by the time you're sixteen, you're going to have a set of 
public exams in eight or nine subjects. And by the time you're 
eighteen, you're going to have  a set of public exams in three 
subjects. You don't get to explore. If you get to get— I got onto a 
science and math track, although my best subject was English 
literature. So I was on this science track, and then you don't get to 
go back and do something else because you either pass these exams 
and go to university at eighteen, or you don't. And that's it. That is 
your opportunity.  
 So, I ended up going to medical school and hated it, but felt very 
trapped by where I was because I was there because I'd passed all 
of this stuff and there was no other way out.  
Raiskin:  You couldn't go back and do English.  
Barry:  Couldn't go back. Couldn't redo. I coped by my early teenage way 
of coping, which was, okay, I'm not really doing this, I'm not really 
here,  which is not a very good way to go to medical school. And so 
I failed all the exams. I'd never failed anything in my life, and had 
what I think, what I characterize now, as kind of a nervous 
breakdown. Just went into a bedsit apartment with friends and 
they looked after me and I tried to recover. And then I discovered 
this very, very unusual department at the University, philosophy 
and psychology department, who took people who had somehow  
fallen out of the system. The professor that was head of the 
department was the Dean of the School of the Arts, so he could 
make differences in what happened. He allowed people to come 
back in and do something different, which was unheard of in 
England at the time. I was just very, very fortunate to be in that 
place.  
 What you had to do was go to the psychology department. They 
gave you an IQ test and if you scored above blah, blah, that's fine, 
they sent you over to the philosophy department. And then you 
had an interview with this professor, Karl Britten. When I went in, I 
said to him, "You should know that I went to medical school and I 
failed all the exams and got thrown out." And  he said, "Oh, you 
must be bright. Come in." Then we talked about English literature, 
and James Joyce, and whatever, philosophy, for an hour and he 
said, "Welcome to the university." So, I got to go back and do a 
degree in philosophy and psychology. That was an immensely 
lucky— that was just an accident of time and place that I could do 
that at that time.  
 And all of us who– were about maybe— It was tiny, there were 
maybe twelve  people, maybe forty  people in the whole three years 
of the department, thirty-five, forty, something like that. And all of 
us had that kind of a story. There were two or three, four, five 
people who were eighteen  because the normal progression in 
England is eighteen  to twenty-one bachelor's degree because then 
twenty-one to twenty-four  Ph.D., you're done, you're out. That's it.  
We were all these anomalies who were coming back in our early 
twenties and there were a few folks who were eighteen, but most of 
us had somehow fallen afoul of the system and been fished out.  
Raiskin:  Did you find any interesting group of people because of that?  
Barry:  It was a great group of people, plus, it wasn't only a great group of 
people, it was 1966  [laughs]. My three years of degree were spent 
on the streets and occupying residence halls and I sang in a rock 
and roll band and, you know, sex, drugs and rock and roll. That 
was really the changing point. That's what really  changed my life 
and my perspective and what was possible.  
Raiskin:  Had you had a career goal after college, after university? Did you 
know what you were going to do with it?  
Barry:  Oh no. No. I mean, if you do something— at that point in England, 
if you go to university and you do something like medicine or law, 
you obviously have a career goal, but otherwise, you read a subject. 
It doesn't have anything to do with a career goal. You just read that 
subject for three years.  
Raiskin:  Did you yourself think,  Oh, I want to do this. I want to teach. I 
want to do this.   
Barry:  No, no. No.  I was having a great time. No.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Barry:  I thought of myself— I like singing.   
Raiskin:  What was your band like?  
Barry:  I was in two bands. One was called Axis and  one was called Steam 
Coffin. We wrote our own music. We did a little bit of— first band 
we did more of other people's music. Second band we wrote our 
own music.  
Raiskin:  Did you play an instrument?  
Barry:  No, I sang. Yeah. And there was— women weren't usually out 
front in bands at that time. We weren't role models if one wanted to 
think of it that way. But we had a lot of fun, bumming up and 
down the motorway in old beater vans, lying on top of amplifiers, 
playing concerts. My only claim to fame is somebody once came up 
to me in the street in London and asked my autograph. That's my 
only claim to fame for that era because they'd seen me at some 
university club or whatever.  
Long:  At this time of your life were you exploring your sexuality?  
Barry:  At this  time in my life I was determinedly heterosexual. And 
actually happily heterosexual. Not so sure about happy in terms of 
relationships, but happy in terms of the sex, so yeah. I guess I did 
start exploring relationships and sexuality in a way because, you 
know, this is the late ‘60s, early ‘70s. I didn't come here till '72, went 
back home, came back '74. I'm not sure what it was like as much 
here, but in England it was definitely free love, free sex. We're all 
really bisexual, so you have sex with different people. Mick Jagger's 
jumping in bed with David Bowie. Whatever, you know? It's all  
very, very open. In that sense I was. I tried things like a threesome 
relationship. I didn't have a fixed view of my sexuality, but I still 
thought of myself as heterosexual. Does that make sense?  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And how old were you at this time?  
Barry:  So, 1970 I would be twenty-six. 
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Barry:  Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I left university in '69. Yeah,  three years to 
get a degree,  I'd be twenty-six. 
Raiskin:  So you did that till around 1970— 
Barry:  I left university in '69 and then for a year, I got a job as a— because  
I needed to make money. I was still singing in the band  but I 
needed to make money. I got a job as a— I did a  certification in 
occupational psychology and got a job as a psychologist in a rehab 
unit for a year, basically assessing folks who had been injured on 
the job, or sometimes— it was mostly people who had physical 
injuries. Sometimes people had had emotional psychological 
mental difficulties, whatever. But the government had this series of 
centers that they could go to and get some assessment and qualify 
for some paid training to do something else because they couldn't 
do what they had been doing. Mostly working class or lower 
middle class folks. I worked at that for a year and then I got a job 
teaching at a college in London, teaching social psychology, at a  
college in London, what was then Enfield College of Technology. 
It's now Middlesex Polytechnic. I taught there for two years.  
Raiskin:  And how was living in London for you?  
Barry:  It was great. London's a great city. I really liked that. This little 
technology college was actually kind of a hotbed of radicalism and 
innovation in terms of teaching. I was part of a group that 
established what we would now call a learning community. Even 
then in England, we would be— technical colleges were established 
to serve populations who didn't get to go to university, but maybe 
wanted a college degree. So,  at the college I was at they could do a 
bachelor's degree, or they could do a technical kind of qualification, 
which we would think of in England then as technical like a 
business certification, marketing degree, that kind of thing. But 
even if they did a business degree, they'd have to do two years of 
liberal education, psychology, philosophy, sociology, et cetera.  
 And so, with that community we established a learning community 
where people did all of those subjects together and we cross-taught. 
So that, for example, I would do the lecturing in the psychology 
part of it, but then would host the seminars in philosophy, or 
sociology, and we worked together to do that. We kind of crossed 
taught  and observed each other and the folks moved through as a 
cohort and did different subjects together.  It was a very early 
learning community. Very radical for British education at the time.  
Raiskin:  Were you reading of the early feminist writings?   
Barry:  I was reading early feminist writings. That period, I think, 
definitely by the time I moved to London, that period from the first 
stirrings in '68, '69, and the disillusionment with the New Left and 
all of those organizations that we were part of. And then, 
particularly when I moved to London, yes, I started reading  
different stuff. De Beauvoir— 
Raiskin:  Do you remember what— 
Barry:  Oh, I read Germaine Greer, of course. For me that was a conflicted 
time. I was really— it was conflicted because, for me, even though I 
got it and it was like, oh, it was this lifeline, in a way, to have words 
put to my experience. Most of the women in England who were 
writing within the earliest feminist literature were upper class. And 
I identified very, very clearly as a working class kid. I knew what 
that had meant to me all through my life and I thought class was 
more important and more salient so it was conflictive. And I think 
it was the move to the United States that helped me to make that 
true jump into feminism because all of a sudden, those constraints 
didn't apply to me anymore. What most amazed me when I came 
to the United States was that people listened to my voice. I couldn't 
believe it. If I talk in England, I mean, women's voices still have less 
power in the conversation anyway, but, okay, I'm not— Oh yeah, 
working class educated, whatever, let's see. Here, people behave 
like you're the fricking queen or something. It's really hilarious. I 
couldn't figure out what was going on. I would say things and  
everybody would go, "Oh." –like, "What? What? What? What 
happened?" That was really neat and different.  
 I would still call myself a working class person who has now 
became part of the professional classes. That was still what I  would 
call myself. I never lost that class identity, but it could move to the 
side and I could think of other things and that's when I really got 
into feminism and the women's movement is when I came  here. 
Because I came here— the college I was teaching at in London had 
a relationship with the U of O. And in fact, the year before I started 
teaching there, Joan Acker had just left, after a year of teaching in 
the same college, as a visiting scholar. When I came here, I realized, 
"Oh, the educational system is different. I could do something— an 
entire different degree here. That's okay." So I applied to the 
graduate program in the Sociology  Department and got accepted. 
And then worked with Joan, actually, for most of my graduate 
career. That was like  a jump into a totally different  world.  
Raiskin:  How did Joan Acker influence your studies and your thinking?  
Barry:  How did Joan Acker— well, when I first met Joan, I was put off by 
her in the same way as I was put off by many Americans because I 
felt that everyone was very rude. Very sort of rude, pushy, talked 
about themselves, strange, strange, strange culture. But then when I 
came in the fall and applied for the university and enrolled in the 
winter of '73, I guess, and then I got to know Joan better and she 
invited me, did I want a graduate research position with, what was 
then, the Center for the Study of Women and Society [Center for  
the Sociological Study of Women] over on the sixth floor at PLC 
with a— you got this tiny little percentage and your tuition 
forgiven, a fee.  
 Then I started to work more closely with Joan and so— I think that 
Joan was probably one of the most important people in my 
thinking. Not because we always agreed, but because she was a 
person with whom I think I had the best intellectual discussions. I 
was her— as well as having  that research position, I was  her GTF  
for classes. We got on from the start because she realized I taught in 
Enfield, she taught in Enfield. She was twenty  years older than me, 
but we were like bosom buddies from the beginning. She would 
invite me to— I wasn't just grading, she'd invite me to give lectures. 
She treated me as someone who had enormous potential in social 
theory and that made a big impact for a young woman who'd been 
thrown out of university.  
 So yes, we disagreed. We disagreed on different things but we did 
research together and wrote together, and yeah, she was pretty 
influential, as were— those first couple of years at the U of O in the 
Sociology  Department were very formative years because, well, 
you would know, that the educational system here was undergoing 
the same thing as I had left in England. Students were wanting to 
take over the classes, direct the curriculum. For those first couple of 
years of the Ph.D. program here, instead of having a set curriculum,  
you had to take statistics, but  instead of that, we did seminars 
where we designed the curriculum ourselves with professors who  
were compatible with that. It was Joan and two or three other folks. 
Don  Van Houten, Dave Wellman, who was there at the time and is 
now in California. So, different people. We designed seminars for 
ourselves where we basically read a lot of social theory and had 
long, long, I'm sure totally boring, but to us fascinating, discussions 
about it. And it was a very diverse and eclectic group who was in 
that program. So, as well as Joan being foundational, that 
experience was very foundational in a shift in  my thinking.  
Raiskin:  Were you reading American feminist theory at the time— 
Barry:  Yes. Yes. Yes. I think— yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin:  And then what?  
Barry:  And then what? And then what? And then I was still with a male 
partner at that point and we had a child and I went back to 
England in '74 to have my daughter because I didn't want to have 
the kind of birth they have here. I wanted a midwife birth. And 
stayed there for six months and then came back and resumed.  
Raiskin:  So you're parenting while you're going to graduate school.  
Barry:  Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then, my partner, David, decided he 
needed to be in love with a student in his class and left, and so I 
was a single mum  trying to finish graduate school. And there's an 
opportunity to teach women's studies at LCC, so I applied for that. 
And I eventually, I got that and I—  
Raiskin:  Can you tell me about your first classes— your women’s studies  
classes?  
Barry:  Okay, yeah. I'll tell you in just a sec. I was just going to say I left the 
program with a master's degree and didn't go on for my Ph.D. and 
did Women’s Studies  at LCC. Well, I got that job in '76 and it was 
LCC— I don't know if you know this history, but they had— the 
year earlier they had abolished women's studies. They got rid of 
ethnic studies and women's studies. They’d appointed a couple of 
folks from the Women's Center to teach a women's studies class 
and all the students worked up and walked out because they said 
they weren't qualified. There was student pressure, there was 
demonstrations, and kind of I knew that history from being at the 
U and seeing what was happening.  
 And then they opened the position again. It was part-time, couple 
of classes a term, that kind of thing, and I got it. The first time I 
walked on campus, I was met with a student committee who 
wanted to interview me to make sure I was a feminist, make sure I 
actually knew what I was talking about. I passed their muster so 
that was okay. And then I was also met with TV cameras because, 
here we are, the college has abolished women's studies and now 
you're hired again, and what is this like? And then Women's 
Studies was lodged within a larger Social Science Department and 
none of the guys there wanted it. So, nobody would speak to me,  
except a couple of people. That was what my first experience was, 
but my experience of teaching was fabulous because it was the ‘70s.  
We thought we were making the revolution together and we were 
getting new texts and doing seminars. I'd have seminars with 
students in people's homes that were unofficial and teach things in 
the community with folks. It was a very, very exciting time and a 
very, apart from students falling in love with you all the time 
because that happens to women's studies professors particularly in 
the ‘70s. I don't know whether it still happens now, but in the ‘70s 
and ‘80s it happened a lot.  
 Apart from that, which could get dicey, it was just an 
extraordinarily exciting and innovative, and you felt you were 
making some kind of history by teaching and working with 
students, and changing consciousness, and watching people open 
and develop in that way. It was just extraordinarily rewarding. 
And I still meet people who say, "I was in your women's studies 
class in 1979," or whatever. It was pretty great. It was pretty great.  
Raiskin:  And you were the only one teaching.  
Barry:  I was the only one teaching, yes, and so I developed the curriculum 
beyond intro to women's studies to some other classes.  
Raiskin:  That takes a certain courage and heartiness to be the only one there.  
Barry:  Yeah. I did have support. I had support from my students and I did 
have support in the Women's Center. Lane had a Women's Center 
since— oh, that was started  maybe '73, '74, '73 maybe. It'd been 
there about three years when I was hired. And so, that was like my 
base of support at the college and there was a group of feminist  
women at the college who worked there. Not necessarily faculty, 
more likely folks who were one of the administration and a  couple 
in financial aid, and we formed a network across the campus to 
support each other. Julie Aspinwall asked me to be a  part of that 
network. I don't know if you know Julie. She was one of the 
founders of Womenspace, but she worked at Lane. So, there  were 
women who were active in— I mean, I thought of them in my 
rather arrogant revolutionary way, and I thought of them as liberal. 
You know, Women's Political Caucus, NOW, yeah, it's okay, but 
not really very radical. But that network of women in the Women's 
Center, I don't think I could've continued at Lane without that 
because we were our own impetus and they supported my classes 
and I supported them, and supported keeping the Women's Center 
there, and we all supported women students. So there was that 
network was really foundational to making it.  
Raiskin:  What were the titles of the classes you taught?  
Barry:  I taught Intro to Women's Studies. I taught Sociology of Women  
Work, and I taught a class called Women's Bodies for Themselves, 
basically about sexual reproductive rights. And then I taught some 
independent studies, seminar kinds of things. Barbara Pope and I 
used to joke about who was the poorest paid when we were both 
the only women's studies  instructors. She'd call me up, said, "I just 
made it to 11,000 a year." "I'm still on 10."  
Raiskin:  That's Barbara Pope who taught history and Women’s and Gender 
Studies at the University of Oregon.  
Barry:  Yeah, that's right. That Barbara Pope, yes.  
Raiskin:  This is clarifying. For the record.  
Barry:  Yes, for the record. The great thing for me though, also, was I kept 
my connection with Joan. Even though I'd left the university, I did 
some research and writing with Joan and another graduate student 
there. And so, I sort of kept a little toe hold over here in what 
people think of the more intellectual community there. But I 
absolutely fell in love with working at community college because 
it was the exact opposite of the educational system I had come 
through. Because it's the people's college, you know? You take 
whoever is there and you helped them move to wherever they 
wanted to be and it's open. It's closing a little now because of 
budget constraints, but it was such a very, very different 
experience. You could feel you were actually part of change, as 
well, just by being at the college itself.  
Raiskin:  Can you say something about who your students were and the 
challenges that they had when they came to your classes?  
Barry:  They were very, very diverse. They tended to skew older, so you'd 
have some students coming in, younger students who had actually 
either come to the university and found they were foundering in a 
big institution or they'd taken a year off or so after high school and 
then wanted to go back to university. Some folks would be younger 
and on the first two years of a bachelor degree track. Other people 
were older of all different kinds of people because we had open  
admission. We had people who were trying to— women coming 
back to school in mid-life after divorce or whatever. We  had what 
were then thought of as “welfare moms” because you could 
actually be allowed to go to school in the 70s if you also got public 
assistance. We had folks who were English was a second language. 
So a huge spectrum of ability. In one class, I might have somebody 
who was taking a degree at the university and decided to do 
women's studies over at Lane because they needed that to complete 
and classes at the U were full, well, they thought they'd come over 
here, to somebody who was struggling with English and literacy.  
 And so it was really— for me, it was amazing because it forced me 
to develop my teaching to a way where I could reach everybody on 
that spectrum in some way. I experimented with a lot of different 
things. I experimented with not grading. You simply do this work 
and if you do this much work, you get an A. If you do this— so the 
people who had a different level of literacy skills could at least get a 
passing grade. I experimented with collaborative grade. I mean, I 
did a lot of different things. People could get credit by doing 
projects in the community or doing presentations, or whatever. I 
just tried to have a lot of diversity in the assessment and the 
teaching style.  
 It was a real challenge, but it was also incredibly rewarding to have 
a group of people— they  might not always agree with you, which 
is great, but you could see them moving. You could see different 
ways of thinking happening.   
Raiskin:  You were involved with a Women in Transition program?  
Barry:  Yes. I started  the Women in Transition Program with a group of 
other women, yes. That was in 1980— we wrote the grant in 1984. 
Yeah, we established it in 1985. And  by that time, by the early ‘80s 
I'd started to work with the Women's Center more directly, as well 
as teach, and I continued doing that, combining those two things 
until about 1993 or four, I think, and then I stopped teaching and 
did Women's Program full-time. But at that point there were a 
series— there was federal money from something called the, 
interestingly enough, Carl Perkins Act. Not singer Carl Perkins, 
Congressman Carl Perkins. And it was directed towards single 
mothers and what were called displaced homemakers, at that 
point, to go back to school. It was at the middle of a period where 
there's  rising divorce rates, lot of single mothers, older women 
needing an education, needing to move back into the workforce, 
and Congress actually recognized that, to some degree, amazingly, 
and dedicated a stream of funds towards programs that would 
address those circumstances.  
 And so, a group of community colleges in Oregon who got grants 
to do programs like Women in Transition. It was initially called 
Transitions to Success and then we changed it to Women in 
Transition. So yes, we established that in 1985 and then expanded it 
into a learning community so that women could take the core 
transitions classes and also add on some beginning English or some 
math, or some study skills, so they could bolster their credentials  
and move to whatever the next step was that they needed to move 
to. 
Raiskin:  That's an amazing program. What did women— what  kind of skills 
did women come out with and what were they able to do with 
them after completing the program.  
Barry:  I think the biggest thing that women— well, they came out with a 
career goal and a plan. That was— because  here are folks, some of 
them weren't initially qualifying for financial aid and we were 
helping them to qualify for financial aid. In the first few years of 
that grant program, we had money to help with childcare. We had 
money to help with bus passes and transportation. So we could 
remove some barriers so women could get some credit under their 
feet so then they could show they could get financial aid, they 
could  enter a program, whatever. There had to  be an ability to 
articulate what your next steps are at the end of the term that they 
were in the program, whether that was a very specific, "I'm going to 
go into a particular career program. I'm going to take classes and go 
to the university," or it was just, "Here are my steps to go back and 
get a job. Here are my steps to move out of this abusive situation 
and become independent." That goal could be— it was a life goal as 
well as a career goal.  
 But I think the biggest thing they came out of was the recognition 
that these women, they were powerful and independent and they 
were okay. They could make their own decisions because we 
formulated it very much as a program with and for women and it  
was a place where they could re-examine their lives, think about 
the steps they'd taken to get themselves to wherever they were, and 
make a plan to move to wherever they needed to go next. But it 
was a lot about personal transformation, not in that fake 
individualistic way, but connection with other women. For many of  
them, it was the first time they'd ever sat in a group of all women 
and talked about their lives. It could be quite fundamentally 
consciousness-raising. We thought of it very consciously as a 
feminist program and most of the programs in Oregon did think of 
themselves as feminist.  
Raiskin:  And it's not just academic, but there's a psychological component to 
it which your studies in psychology prepared you for.  
Barry:  Right. Yes. Yes, that's true. And also feminism prepared  me for 
intensive consciousness-raising and connection. And because it was 
a diverse group of women, there were women who had been upper 
middle class suddenly down to poverty because husband leaves 
and then they don't have anything. And there were women who 
were on welfare, women coming out of prison, women— and they 
were just put in together and start exploring what do we need to do 
next.  
Long:  Did you know Sonja Foss  [Hazel Foss]? She started the Widowed 
Services/Displaced Homemaker program at U.O.  
Barry:  Yes, I know. That was a different set of money and a little bit 
earlier. Yes. Yes, I did know her.   
Raiskin:  So your work put you in touch with a lot of non-profit agencies, 
like Womenspace— 
Barry:  Oh yes, it did.  
Raiskin:  —domestic violence, SASS— 
Barry:  Yeah. Sponsors. We worked with those and I was on the Domestic 
Violence Council, Womenspace, and yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did the women who ran these different— or were on the boards of 
these different agencies, did that comprise a community for you?  
Barry:  Well, in some ways it did. In some ways it did. I mean, I'm still 
friends with Evelyn Anderton,  for example. We're in a  book group 
together. So yes,  there are women who were feminists and on those 
boards who did provide a community, but also, I still have 
connections with the university, with Joan and Sandi Morgen, and 
folks like that, and I had other friends. I decided— When did I— At 
some point, during all of this, I decided I wanted to sing again and 
so I did two things. One thing was, about twenty-five years ago, I 
joined Soromundi. And the other things was, with another totally 
different group of women I knew, I joined this performance group 
called the Radar Angels, where we did song and dance and 
vaudeville kinds of stuff. Those were two  very different 
experiences. I had a lot of different friends in the community and I 
had ex-students who were friends. Because, especially in the 70s, 
there was that feeling of— which I'm not sure was such a great idea 
as I look back on it now, but there's that erasure of the distinction  
between the professor's not an authority figure with the students, 
we're with this learning together and especially doing stuff outside 
of class I formed some lifelong friendships from that group, too.  
Raiskin:  What's your hesitation and criticism now looking back at that 
blurring of the boundaries?  
Barry:  Because I think it's ripe for exploitation, actually, of the student and 
taking advantage of— because  irrespective of your attempt to erase 
those differences, the students are still looking at you as some kind 
of authority. You have more power in the relationship whether you 
acknowledge it, or want it or not. I think there can be some blurring 
of boundaries and some vulnerabilities there that we weren't 
conscious of, is what I think.  
Raiskin:  And maybe some erasure of your expertise because I hear this long 
history of your studies and what you brought to the classroom.  
Barry:  Well, that didn't really bother me. No.  
Raiskin:  —that's me.  
Barry:  No, I think in some ways— not later in life when we were friends, 
but at that stage there was still— the boundaries were supposed to 
be erased but there was still an acknowledgement to the expertise. 
That's where I think it can get kind of murky and difficult.  
Raiskin:  Especially when you joined Soromundi— We've heard lots of 
people who came to Eugene in a VW bus and they found a way 
to— Soromundi was just a different story than yours and so what  
was your perception of the lesbian community in Eugene which 
was quite vibrant at the time?  
Barry:  Right, right. Well, when I first came to Eugene, I was still defining 
myself as a heterosexual woman, but I had friends in the lesbian 
community, and did political stuff with women in the lesbian 
community, and went to the Riv Room  long before I've decided to 
come out and be a lesbian, I was at Riv Room  dancing and— Sally 
Sheklow was in my class, for God's sake, and I knew lots of folks in 
Starflower and Mother Kali's feminist bookstore, lesbian bookstore. 
Center of the community with Izzie. And Izzie and I were friends.  
Raiskin:  Izzie Harbaugh? 
Barry:  Yeah, yeah. I'm just going to say Lorraine and I were— I think 
Lorraine and I are friends. Lorraine Ironplow. We've had some 
interesting run-ins over the years, but we respect each other. So I 
had lots of connections within the lesbian community, even though 
I was still defining myself as straight. And then, those were also the 
years towards the end of the ‘70s, beginning of the ‘80s, when you'd 
go to women's studies conferences and the lesbians would line up 
on one side and straight women would be on the other side, and 
then there'd be those of us in the middle going “But, but, you 
know—“ Anyway.  
 So, my perceptions of the lesbian community were that it was very 
strong, very vibrant. I had lots of good women friends within that  
community  who said, "Come on, what are you doing? You're crazy. 
Why are you straight? What's wrong with you?" Anyway—  
Raiskin:  Did you find that encouraging or judgmental, or both?  
Barry:  I find it both, I think. Not so much judgmental from the women I 
knew in Eugene because for whatever reason I  had feminist cred. 
For whatever reason, I didn't find anybody— they  would joke with 
me and sort of say, "Hey, come over to our side. What's wrong with 
you, Kate?" The judgmental part of it I found on the academic side 
in terms of conferences and then— 
Raiskin:  Judgmental of you not identifying as a lesbian at the conferences— 
Barry:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. You couldn't be a feminist. If you were 
with men, you couldn't be a feminist. That was not something I met 
in my immediate community in Eugene, although there would be 
questioning about— "So, why are you with guys?" You know? But 
very much so in the academic community. Very much so, yeah. 
And then I started, of course, to question it myself because, you 
know, right? I had lousy relationships with men, maybe great sex 
in the early days, but lousy relationships. All my friendships are 
with women. All my primary relationships are with women. So 
now what am I doing here? Because I went through a kind of a 
period of self-examination. For a while I defined myself as bi-
sexual. And then I fell in love with a woman friend, so then I came 
out as a lesbian. And that was about— I have to think of how old  
my daughter is so I can remember when that was. She was eight, so 
that's about '83. '82, '83.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. And how did that change your experience 
in community if you identified yourself and had a partner?  
Barry:  I think it radically shifted it, really. Because particularly, in a group 
like Soromundi, at that point at least, you were not really accepted 
unless you're a lesbian. Now when I joined Soromundi I was 
already in the questioning, hmm, what am I doing, maybe I'm bi-
sexual, maybe I am a lesbian, am I a lesbian? kind of phase. But it 
was very much a community that saw itself as a particular 
definition of lesbianism and therefore the music had to have a 
particular definition and every action had to have a particular 
definition. By the time I joined Soromundi, Karm  had already left 
the year before, but I knew all about that conflict because I was part 
of the women's community. In some ways I didn't feel any different 
because I was part of the women's community to begin with. But in 
other ways I did because my relationships deepened and my circle 
shifted. In other ways there's a lot of change.  
Raiskin:  During the period of self-reflection when you were thinking this 
through, were you anxious? Was it a difficult time? Did you have 
internalized homophobia?  
Barry:  Well, I don't think— Right, yes. Yeah. No, I don't know that I was 
anxious in that way. I'm not sure anxious is the right way to 
describe it. I was concerned about being true to myself, what really  
was going on and was I— I did not want to enter into relationships 
with women as a kind of experiment. And I did try that a couple of 
times, sleep with a couple of people but maybe this isn't for me. 
And I thought, no, no, no, no, no. I have to really— but then, when 
you fall in love all of that goes out the window.  
Raiskin:  Raising your daughter in a— now you're in a lesbian relationship 
and she's eight or nine. Anything in the schools? How did you deal 
with teachers? What was the— 
Barry:  Not so much with teachers, but she experienced a lot of issues, 
particularly in middle school,  having a lesbian parent. Not so much 
in elementary school because it was— she was in an alternative 
school. There was some acceptance. But when she went to 
Roosevelt, she would try to hide the fact that I was a lesbian. We 
just actually talked about this the other day because I have a 
fourteen-year-old granddaughter who just graduated from middle 
school, and we're just talking about talking about the difference. 
For Sophie, it's like, "Oh yeah, that person's genderqueer. Oh yeah, 
they're a girl now, you know."  "Oh, well, Julia is now Keith, but I 
really like Julia's clothes. I hope she's going to stay Keith. Maybe 
she'll give me her clothes." It's just like— it’s just so normal. And 
that maybe very specific to Eugene culture and— because  I know— 
Raiskin:  South Eugene  [High School]. 
Barry:  Yeah, and South Eugene. Very, very specific. But Anna and I were 
just talking about how immensely different that experience is from  
her experiences of being a school student and my granddaughter's 
experience.  
Raiskin:  And was the visibility of you being lesbian because she now had 
two mothers?  
Barry:  Well, she had— there  was a visibility of being lesbian because I was 
out. She was being— I'm out and I was single for part of the time 
she was in middle school. I was with a partner for part of the time. 
So, part of it was, yes, two mothers. I'm not sure we defined 
ourselves as two mothers, but certainly two women living together 
and I had a daughter.  
Raiskin:  And the only way they'd know that at school is if you came to 
concerts  or— 
Barry:  And friends came home. And kids talk. I mean, friend comes home, 
kids talk, and that's that. So that was a difficult time for her, less so 
in high school I think, but middle school was a very, very difficult 
time.  
Raiskin:  This was also the time of the number of the anti-gay measures in 
Oregon.  
Barry:  Mabon and the OCA, yeah.  
Raiskin:  What was your experience of that?  
Barry:  I worked on those campaigns and campaigned against Measure 9 
and, yeah, that was— you know, the interesting thing— Harriet   
Merrick and I are good friends and we talk about this a lot. The 
interesting thing about Lon Mabon is that I think that actually 
made it possible for people to come out and for everybody to 
realize, "Oh, my next door neighbor's gay and I kind of like her." In 
some ways— I mean, it was a horrible time. The level of bigotry at 
the time was awful, but in some ways, it made visibility possible. 
Because you had to be visible. You had to fight it. You had to be out 
there. And so, you would come out to people who  otherwise would 
not have known. I mean, I wasn't— at that point I wasn't fully out 
at Lane because it wasn't safe to be so.  
Raiskin:  Can you talk about that a little bit?  
Barry:  Yeah. It was safe to be out with certain people, obviously women 
that you networked with across campus and some faculty, but 
other sections of the institution,  it was not safe to be out. You just 
didn't talk about your private life with those people.  
Raiskin:  And your colleagues and your mentors here are Joan and Sandi 
and Barbara, they're in a different situation from you.  
Barry:  Yes. Yes, exactly. Exactly.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, so the models that you had for that, you had to forge 
something different.  
Barry:  Right. Exactly, yes. The folks who were lesbian and gay, lesser 
extent gay guys, but lesbians at Lane, we knew each other and we 
formed a support group for each other, and the women and some  
men who were feminists formed a  support group and supported 
us, but no way sort of— it's funny at one point after I'd stopped 
teaching and moved into administration and was doing the 
Women's Program and then did other things at Lane, there was a 
manager's diversity training and it was one of those trainings 
where everybody stand up if you're— whatever, you know? And 
this lovely woman in the Health Service next to me said, "When 
will they say everybody who's gay and lesbian stand up. Kate, I'll 
stand up with you." I said, "Well, you'd be by yourself standing if 
you're going to stand up in this group." Because I knew there were 
people who were really homophobic in that group, and it was hard 
enough to have a vibrant Women's Program and have classes and 
programs for women only and defend against, well why aren't you 
admitting men and isn't this illegal? It was hard enough without 
having to counteract their direct homophobia on the job.  
Raiskin:  So you felt it would threaten your program?  
Barry:  I felt it would. I felt they would treat me differently and the reality 
is they probably thought I was a lesbian anyway. They thought I 
was a lesbian when I  was straight, so it didn't matter. But I wasn't 
going to necessarily out myself in a professional way if I thought it 
might be harmful to what I was doing.  
Raiskin:  And did you find that Measure 9 or the ones that came before and 
after that forced your hand?   
Barry:  They did a little bit. I think they did a little bit because I'd walk 
around with my No on 9 button on and have conversations with 
people that I perhaps would not have had conversations with. You 
could see, “Oh, I didn't think you were gay. Oh.” You could see the 
wheels turning, so in that way, yes. Yes, it did force my hand a little 
bit. 
Raiskin:  Did you find yourself— you kind of paint this picture of there 
being the academic lesbians and the community lesbians and that 
there was some more acceptance about your identity in the 
community.  
Barry:  Well, certainly for me.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. Did you ever feel any in the community— people in the 
community being put off by your academic work or identity?  
Barry:  No. No, I didn't feel that. I think it might have been because some 
folks in the community had been  in classes with me, so we kind of 
knew each other. So I did not actually find that a barrier. 
Sometimes I did, but sometimes I'd get— Because when you taught 
women's studies in those days, you were sort of looked at as kind 
of— it's ridiculous to think about it now, but you were sort of this 
feminist goddess-type person. It was like, "Oh, women's studies. 
Oh, you changed my life." I'm not meaning to put that down 
because that was a real feeling. So sometimes I'd get a little bit of an 
"Oh!" reaction.  
Raiskin:  So you're a little bit on a pedestal.   
Barry:  A little bit on a pedestal, yeah, and that was not entirely 
comfortable and felt, for me, particularly weird, actually. But yeah, 
a little bit in those days.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, yeah. So, now we're up to— 
Barry:  Oh god, I don't know what we're up to now.  
Raiskin:  So, you're in administration, you're in Women in Transition, in the 
90s, somewhere in the ‘90s. 
Barry: In the ‘90s, yeah. Yeah, in the ‘90s I'm doing that and then I started 
to combine that with some different kind of experiences, 
administrative experiences at Lane, mainly because I was asked to. 
Mary Spilde  came to Lane and she and I got to be friends and  she'd 
say, "Would you take that department for a year?" And I'd say, 
"Yeah, okay." And so then I sort of ended my career at Lane— I just 
really felt I had developed the Women's Program as much as it 
could be. We had a Women's Center, we had Women in Transition, 
we had a program for women in non-traditional jobs, we had a 
program for Spanish-speaking women and Latina women entering 
the college, we had young women in science programs. It was 
really mainstreamed and accepted and when I started it was like a 
closet, two people. And I did not do that. A whole group of women 
did that. I felt like I had accomplished everything I could 
accomplish and I might want to do something different at the 
college. I actually ended up being in the role of Associate Vice- 
President for Student Affairs, and that's how I ended my career 
there the last three years.  
 And as well as doing that, I had— part of my work at Lane had 
been to combat sexual harassment and discrimination. I chaired the 
committee way back in the days  when we didn't talk about these 
things on sexual harassment and we came forward with the policy 
for the college and had to put up with a lot of negativity and— 
"This is like Nazism. You're laying down rules for our behavior." 
"Well, yeah, we are." We developed from that stage to, when I was 
working with the Women's Center, I was an advocate for women 
who were experiencing harassment and then when I moved into 
administration, our affirmative action director  had some liabilities, 
so Mary asked me if I would do the internal part of affirmative 
action as well as the Women's Program, and he would do the 
relationships with external agencies. I worked with HR and the 
college attorney and did all of the policies around different forms of 
discrimination and harassment, and watched over complaints, and 
made sure people were getting access to processes.  
 And we were able to do actually quite a lot. We were able to put 
gender identity, not just sexual orientation, but gender identity into 
complaint processes at the college, long before it was in the state, or 
in the city. I felt that was good work in an administrative capacity.  
Raiskin:  When did you retire?   
Barry:  I retired in— let me  think about  it. I retired  in 2010 and actually— 
so before that I had decided— Joan— I stayed working somewhat 
with the university. I did some seminars with visiting feminist 
scholars, Joanie would always say, "Come on, come on over here 
and do this." Then I worked with Joan and Sandi when they did the 
welfare reform project  here. I worked with that.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever work with Cheris Kramarae?  
Barry:  Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I worked with Cheris, yeah. Joan was 
always kind of poking at me, "Why did you never do a 
dissertation?" I said, "No, I'm fine. I think I have done really good 
work at the community college. Stop being such a snob. Not 
everybody has to be at the university." And then when I was 
approaching sixty— this is when I thought I needed to shake my 
life up a bit, and I thought, "Well, maybe I kind of do  want a 
graduate degree." So, OSU  had a program where you could work 
and do a Ph.D. I applied to that and got accepted.  
Raiskin:  Ph.D. in? 
Barry:  Education.  
Raiskin:  In education.  
Barry:  There's no point now in trying to go back and do sociology and 
women  studies. What has your life work been  in? It's been in 
education. I worked and did a Ph.D. in education at OSU. I actually 
did my dissertation on women on welfare who were trying to  
return to school. It was in my heart, so that was good. When I 
retired in 2010, I finished the course work, but Mary had kind of 
tapped me for this Associate Vice-President role. So the dissertation 
went on one side, so I still— so when I retired in 2010 I did the 
research and wrote it up and completed it. That was kind of fun. So 
I got a Ph.D. when I was sixty-eight. It was kind of cool. I was in 
line with all of these young people. They said, "So—" They'd look at 
the robe, "So, what did you— graduate  in?" I'd tell them I just got 
my dissertation and they'd be floored. But it was cool because it 
was the year Michelle Obama spoke at the graduation. That was 
pretty cool.  
 Anyway, I sort of did that and then I went back to work at Lane for 
a year, in 2012 because our vice-president left to get a presidency 
and Mary didn't have anybody to fill her role, so she asked me if I'd 
come back and with the other associate vice-presidents, if we could 
do those roles and the VP role while she  organized that, basically. 
Then I finally retired in 2013.  
Raiskin:  And what are you doing now that you're— in the last six years?  
Barry:  What am I doing now? Well, I spend quite a bit of time on 
Soromundi. I'm on their board, but I'm president of their board 
right now. So— Because Soromundi is— well, I know you've 
interviewed Karm and Lisa I think, so you know quite a bit about 
the chorus. We have, on average, about ninety  women, ninety-
ninety-five women. And we're a non-profit and we don't have any 
staff, so the board does all the work of the chorus. Grant writing  
and organizing the concerts. Lisa does the musical direction and we 
do the rest. Being board president, I organized the concerts for 
about three years when I was first on the board and now I'm board 
president, there's quite a bit of work. We're having some very 
interesting membership discussions. You know about that, disputes 
at the moment.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe it because it's very interesting?  
Barry:  Oh yeah. Yeah, well, you know what I think is— I want to start 
by— because  I don't know whether they talked  about this. What is 
unique, I think, about Soromundi is we're about to enter our 
thirtieth  year. And I think we are the remaining lesbian institution 
in Eugene. Because we used to have lesbian coffee shop, lesbian 
bar. I would call Mother K's a lesbian bookstore, not just a feminist 
bookstore. We had Wallflower, we had a dance troupe, we had 
Starflower. We had all of these institutions in the community and 
they've all gone or been transmuted into other things. And 
Soromundi is still Soromundi Lesbian Chorus and I think that's 
quite amazing that we've endured.  
 But, we've spent the past year and a half doing what lots of 
choruses are doing around the country  who are lesbian/gay 
choruses: talking about membership. Mainly because we're 
challenged by— I don't mean that in a negative way— younger 
members who identify differently, and who identify as non-binary, 
who identify as genderqueer, who think the labels of lesbian and 
gay are old labels, and we have voices in the community of folks  
feeling like, "Well, I kind of don't want to join Soromundi because 
it's a lesbian chorus." So, we have very clearly in our guidelines that 
membership is open to anyone  who identifies as a women. We've 
always been known for— we have several straight women in the 
choir, women who identify as bi-sexual. We’ve had  trans women in 
the chorus. But this is kind of a newer development focusing on not 
having a particular binary identity of any kind.  
 It's been a very interesting process and we're still in it. We have 
decided we are going to remain Soromundi Lesbian Chorus of 
Eugene, so long as there's a discriminatory intent of practice 
attached to the word lesbian. I mean, only a year ago a church 
refused to have us sing, so that has not gone from the community 
and part of our power,  I think, are ninety women singing together 
under the banner of a lesbian chorus. We don't care how you 
identify, but you have to be okay singing under this banner of a 
lesbian chorus. We're not going to abandon that. We've talked 
through that with membership and the board and we're there. And 
for now we've kept who identifies as a woman. And then we have 
to figure out how to be inclusive. So that's our membership 
definition and struggle this year, is how do we remain a lesbian 
chorus, self-identified  women, and include here's this bunch of 
folks who say they're non-binary. They've come into the chorus, we 
say, "Welcome." And then we have to think about, "But we don't 
feel included in your membership definition."   
 We have gone through retreats, through exercises, the board is 
going to be discussing it again at our retreat in a couple weeks. We 
did things like we invited a chorus down from Portland to our 
winter retreat. They are an identified non-binary gender-fluid 
chorus. And that may be fifteen  or twenty  folks. They came down 
and we did a joint concert. But we also did kind of a working 
retreat about identification and experiences, which— they were 
terrified because they've had some negative experiences both with 
the gay men's chorus and the lesbian chorus, up in Portland. And 
so they thought they might meet a barrage of, "Why are you 
claiming this identity?" Or, "You could never be part of this  
chorus—" And that's not how it is for Soromundi.  
 Lots of people are accepting. They want to be inclusive, but we also 
have a core membership of what I think of as oldie goldie lesbians, 
and they're not all silver hairs like me. There are folks in their 
forties, or whatever. But for them, being a lesbian  and singing as 
part of a lesbian  chorus is very core  and they have a lot of fear 
around if we broaden our definitions, the lesbian experience and 
identity will drop out of the picture. And you know that fear is real. 
It is real because it's happened. It's happened in academic 
programs, it's happened in— it happened to my old Women's 
Program at Lane, where they got rid of it and made a Gender 
Equity Center and now women don't want to go in it. I understand 
that this happens.   
 At the same time, we want to— this lovely young person in front of 
me who told me they're non-binary is no threat to anybody. Come 
on in and sing. So we're just juggling the most controversial person 
in some ways, though I thought they were great. We had this year, 
this person who identifies as a lesbian and non-binary and he's 
clearly a trans man, becoming a woman but doesn't identify as a 
women yet, in the kind of in-between place, you know? But they 
joined Soromundi because they identify as a lesbian, but they're 
non-binary, and a couple of our members really feel like that's an 
appropriation of my identity. I'm fine if you come in, and say 
you're non-binary, and you're singing under  this banner of a 
lesbian woman-identified chorus. That is great. But do not say 
you're a lesbian because you haven't had my experience, you 
haven't had my culture. So we have those kinds of fault lines that 
we're trying to negotiate.  
 And I have somebody in the chorus who has been— we have four 
different sections with a couple of groupings within each section, so 
we have eight part arrangements for a lot of the time and we have 
music section leaders for each section, and there's a section leader 
in the altos that I really want to come back as section leader because 
she's fabulous and she is seriously reconsidering her membership 
in Soromundi because she can't deal with this fault line. So it's 
very— 
Raiskin:  Because she identifies as a lesbian.   
Barry:  Yes. And she can take non-binary, but don't talk to me about non-
binary and lesbian. Sorry. For her, that's too much of an assault on 
her own identity. And so, I'm still talking to her. I'm still trying to 
usher her along into next year.  
Raiskin:  Well, it's fascinating work you do being in a leadership position, 
allowing these conversations to happen because they're very 
important and— 
Barry:  They are. They are very important and Lisa is very central in that. 
Very, very central. But you have to have those conversations 
happening because we can't— If we're going to continue to thrive 
and grow, we need to have those conversations and we need to 
have that inclusivity, but we still need to stay with our core 
identity, too. It will be very interesting to see how and if we're 
going to pull this off. But all choruses are struggling with it. People 
in all walks of life are struggling with it.  
Raiskin:  I think you're right that Soromundi is the only lesbian institution in 
Eugene.  
Barry:  I think that's correct.  
Raiskin:  —and there  used to be so many.  
Barry:  Yeah. I think that's correct. There's an importance to that. There's a 
signal to that. But, you can't therefore— we have expanded and 
grown throughout the— When I first joined Soromundi, if you 
weren't a certain kind of lesbian and you didn't want to sing certain  
kinds of music, it's like we're not even going to talk to you. And 
now, we're very— really quite diverse in terms of membership and 
we do all kinds of music and that's great. It's the music that's 
important, but we do also think of ourselves as a social justice 
organization. We do. For us, it's the power of music to change 
people's lives, even if it's the first time, as it was when we got 
invited to the Oktoberfest at the fairgrounds last fall.  
 Who'd have thought that we were performing with— you know 
the Junction City Cloggers, and the Gleemen who invited us, bless 
their hearts, a couple of other— But this was not our usual 
audience. And we have Soromundi Lesbian Chorus of Eugene. And 
we had themes every year, so last year our theme was “Telling Our 
Story,” so we had some oldie goldie lesbian songs. We had Here  
Comes the Lesbians, was one of our songs. We sang this to these 
Junction City Cloggery audience, and at first they kind of looked at 
us and then they started to— couple of them got up and danced. I 
mean, it's great. Do you know what I'm saying? It's really great. So, 
we do think of ourselves as that kind of an organization as well as a 
chorus.  
Raiskin:  I wonder what you think about aging in Eugene in a lesbian 
community and what— thoughts about opportunities or concerns 
or— 
Barry:  Well, we do think about— in fact, I'm part of a group of women 
friends and I, we're all lesbian, one straight woman, we formed a 
group we call The Olders and we meet once a month for  
discussion. And it was just because we're all in our sixties  and early 
seventies  that we— oh, we have one outlier who isn't— is she  sixty  
yet? We have one youngie. And this was actually the impetus of a 
woman who unfortunately died a year and a half ago now, Pat 
Vallerand who was an attorney in the community and part of 
supervising the Domestic Violence Council, et cetera. Anyway, she 
was also in the chorus and just said, "Don't you think we should 
start  talking about this stuff?" About ten of us meet once a month. 
We started off as a regular kind of going to read a book about aging 
and talk about it and now we're more just how is that manifesting 
in our lives?  
 For us that has been really a great support group to be able to talk 
about aging in a real way and what does it mean to us, and what 
supports do we need and several people have had serious illnesses. 
Last couple of years my partner  was diagnosed with cancer. It's 
enabled us to form a support for each other. In terms of being in 
age— so that's just my own personal support and way of dealing 
with it. In terms of thinking about aging in this community, in 
some ways, of course, it's open and supportive because it's Eugene. 
There's resources in Eugene. There's openness in Eugene. But I find 
ageism all the time. I find it in these younger members of the 
chorus who say, "Well, we're aging out.” What do you mean ‘we're 
aging out’? You mean nobody with silver hair can come to our 
concerts? What does this mean, ‘we're aging out’?” Have you 
looked at our audiences? They're quite demographically  diverse.   
 Anyway, or this sense of almost, particularly with millennials. I 
don't want to be targeting but I was having issues with this one 
person on the board and I thought, Oh, I should read about 
millennials, maybe that will help me. But definitely a sense of, 
okay, you're over fifty or whatever, therefore you're over here 
somewhere. You don't have new ideas or whatever. I've met that 
kind of attitude in younger lesbians, particularly through chorus 
connections because that's where I'm most often working with 
folks, rather than being friends with  folks. I find that— 
Raiskin:  Have you or people in your circle thought about living in 
community or what's with assisted living? I mean, what's the place 
for lesbians in that stage?  
Barry:  Right, we've talked about it. I don't know how serious we are yet 
because I think all of us are still, despite all evidence to the contrary 
because we've all had to deal with aging parents. I supported Joan 
during the last three years of her life when she was in assisted 
living and memory care. So I've seen someone go  from I'm about to 
go lecturing in Sweden to where all of a sudden I'm in an— I keep 
saying to Barb, my partner, about, "You know, I think if Joanie 
could just have done this, this and this, she would have had a 
different outcome. I'm going to learn from this." And she'll say, 
"No, you're not. You're just as stubborn. No, you're not."  
 We have talked about it. We haven't made any serious plans, but 
we have talked about, you know, "Maybe we should all just get a 
house, on the ground floor, living together and we can support  
each other. And maybe we should look at a supportive community. 
We can come down from our houses—" And some folks have 
converted their houses into aging places. We've all thought about 
that. At one point in our Olders group, we thought, Well, let's do 
some tours of different senior living centers.  And we all said, "Oh 
no, let's not." We are both being realistic and non-realistic about it. I 
think we are all hoping to age in place and talking about how we 
might do that because the reality— 
Raiskin:  And in your separate families.  
Barry:  Yes. Yes. Or how we might do that together. Barb and I have a 
couple— well, we have several very close friends, but particular 
couple that we've talked about, well, maybe we should get condos 
next door to each other. And I have some friends who have actually 
done that, moved into the Friendly community and gotten 
apartments near each other so they can still have independent 
living, but be part of a more supportive community. So we've 
talked about that. None of us— 
Raiskin:  And the income disparity is going to show itself very clearly with 
the decisions that people make.  
Barry:  Exactly. Well, exactly. We're all privileged enough to be women 
who've had professions and therefore do have resources. And that's 
not true for many lesbians as they age. It is not true at all. 
Differently to gay men. It's just not true. And there are not 
institutional settings that cater to that. I learned a lot. Assisting  
Joanie I learned a lot about the different kinds of— what’s the 
difference between the senior community and the assisted living 
and memory care, and what's available. And as we walked through 
all of that, I just said to her, "How do you negotiate this?"  
Raiskin:  And right now there's no training happening in these places at all?  
Barry:  No. No, there isn't.  
Raiskin:  —around gay and lesbian— 
Barry:  I think whatever we do we're going to have to do  for ourselves, 
essentially.  I think of it, I'm seventy-four, and I think, Okay, maybe 
I have ten years and then I'll have to really move down off the hill 
and do something different. We'll see."  
Raiskin:  Ten years to get things in place.  
Barry:  Uh-huh [affirmative] [laughs]. But we talk about it. We talk about it 
a lot. We just haven't taken concrete steps because we have to 
create our own communities. They're not there for us. They're not 
there. But there's going to be enough of a demographic that systems 
are going to have to shift.  
Raiskin:  You're perfectly placed being a “woman in transition” for— 
Barry:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  —to think this through practically and theoretically and you could 
be a great leader in this.   
Barry:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. Maybe, we'll see.  
Raiskin:  Is there something in your life story that we haven't touched on 
that you'd really like.  
Barry:  Let me think. I don't think so. One thing I worry about— well, I 
worry about a lot given the “orange person” in the White House, 
but one thing that I worry about is the disappearance of women 
and feminism from the dialogue, especially as we broaden things. It 
is so easy. I mean, women get forgotten all the time, and our 
history gets forgotten all the time, and our specific circumstances 
get forgotten all the time. I was at— when  the southern states were 
enacting their ridiculous abortion laws and so-called fetal 
heartbeat, and there  was a big rally at the courthouse, so I went to 
that. It was appropriately led by lots of young people. This is good, 
Kitty spoke, but— There was a big push, there was a trans person 
there and a big push to say we should not be— that it is 
discriminatory to look at the struggle against abortion as a fight 
against women because some of us are women and we don't have 
wombs, but we still have reproductive rights. This was a trans 
woman. We need to talk about reproductive rights and  not as a 
focus on women. So when Kitty spoke, she corrected herself a 
couple of times and I have to grab her and tell her to stop doing 
that because I've known Kitty since the days of NARAL, you know.  
Raiskin:  This is Kitty Piercy, who was—  
Barry:  Kitty Piercy, yeah, ex-mayor of Eugene. Ex everything. Because it is 
a struggle against women. That is exactly what it is. It is to control 
women and to control women's lives and that, that I worry about, 
that will get removed from the conversation and get  removed. I 
mean, we have #MeToo, we have those things which amazes me. 
Like, duh, you've only realized this happens. Weren't we talking 
about this thirty  years ago, for god's sake? But that worries me. 
That worries me when I think about, well, where is feminist theory 
going and feminist action? And the really great thing, I think, about 
the Women in Transition programs in the State of Oregon, was they  
were that very unusual thing, something that was in a bureaucracy, 
a series of institutions that was actually a feminist grassroots 
movement devoted to preserving women's choices. They have all— 
they  have either disappeared or they've been turned into general 
transition programs. What's happening to those thousands of 
women who are still poor, who are still in domestic violence— 
what  has happened to them? What is happening to them as they 
attempt to change their lives?  
 That's a piece of the national picture that worries me. And I have 
these— I've been saying I've been going to do this for two or three 
years. Maybe when I've stopped being a board president with the 
chorus I'll do this. I want to do a kind of— I have a friend down in 
southern Oregon who's also interested in this, do kind of a research 
project that reconstructs the history of those programs so they don't 
disappear from the conversation. You can see what happened  
because women disappear all the time. Our stories disappear all the 
time. That's a piece that's of concern.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. If you think about somebody watching this in twenty years, 
or a young person watching it now, couple months, is there 
something in particular, given your experience and your life of 
commitment to these different causes, or just your own growth, 
that you would advise a young  person or tell them?  
Barry:  I think young people are going to be our saviors. I watch the young 
people in the climate movement, and other movements. What I 
would say to young people is to stay with those convictions. Stay 
with those truths. Fight and struggle because you'll gain a little and 
it can disappear but you can push back, and you can make a 
change. That's what I would say to them. And to be there to carry it 
forward.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Long:   Thank you!  
Barry:  Oh, you're welcome. It was kind of fun.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  