
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries' Special Collections &  University Archives. This is 
an oral history interview with Sally Sheklow on August 1, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries' recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries' Special Collections & University Archives, and Professor 
Judith Raiskin at the UO Department of Women's, Gender and 
Sexuality Studies. Sally, please let us know if you agree to be 
recorded for this project and that you  give your permission for the 
university to preserve and make available your recorded and 
transcribed interview?  
Sheklow:  Yes, I agree.   
Long:  Thank you. Why don't we start out with a pretty basic question. 
Can you tell us when and where you were born?  
Sheklow:  I was born at the El Mirador Hotel in Palm Springs, California. 
There wasn't a hospital there then. They had a makeshift hospital 
set up in the back of the hotel. One of those iconic spires of the 
hotel that has beautiful Arabic tiles on it and stuff that's on all the 
postcards of Palm Springs. That's where I was born. Show-biz. 
Long:  What year was that?  
Sheklow:  1950. December 8, 1950.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about your family?  
Sheklow:  Sure. My parents were in business, they had a small paint store, 
paint and wallpaper store. This was before you could get paint at 
the big stores, the specialty stores and my dad mixed color by eye. 
He also held court in the paint store. He had a lot of jokes that he 
would tell people coming in and say, "How much paint is it going 
to take to paint a house?" He would say, "Well, it depends. How 
much does your house weigh?" That was my dad. He also 
performed with USO when he was in the military. I have a great 
photo of him with a big BBC microphone in front  of him.  
Raiskin:  What kind of performance did they do?  
Sheklow:  They did slapstick comedy shticks. When someone's on a table and 
they're pulling out nylon stockings and hammers and stuff of the 
surgical victim.   
Long:  Did he serve in World War II?  
Sheklow:  Yeah. My mom was a writer. She wrote copy for the Navy, 
advertising copy and recruiting stuff like that. She went on to write 
a play that was made into a movie with Jayne Mansfield. It  was 
called Promises! Promises! Not to be confused with the Broadway 
show Promises, Promises. We got to go on the set of movie and meet 
Jayne Mansfield and watch her movie get made. That was pretty 
cool. So, she was a writer. Then she became a mom and a business 
owner. I had an older brother, two years older and oops baby sister, 
eight years younger. That was our family. We lived in a house that 
my parents owned. I think they bought it for $3,000 in Palm 
Springs. Yeah, I lived in that house till I left home.  
Long:  Would you tell us where you went to school? 
Sheklow:  Well, first, I went to Catholic school which was really funny for a 
little Jewish kid. There was one other Jewish girl in the Catholic 
school. Actually, I just had my fiftieth  high school reunion, and she 
was there. We remembered being in Catholic school together. We 
were sent outside whenever they were doing religious stuff to read 
because we were the two kids who already knew how to read. But 
my dad had a heart attack when I was four, and my mom couldn't 
take care of me at home. My brother was already in kindergarten 
and the only school that would take  us was the Catholic school. I 
was in Catholic school for kindergarten and first grade. Then I went 
to elementary school in Palm Springs, junior high, high school. 
Graduated from high school after my junior year and left town.   
Raiskin:  What was it like growing up in Palm Springs?  
Sheklow:  It was hot. A lot of tourists, golfers, tennis players, Republicans, 
other people I couldn't relate to. There was a small cadre of anti-
war peacenik stoners who  hung out together. That was kind of my 
crowd. Palm Springs really seemed pretty small.  
Raiskin:  So you left at what age?  
Sheklow:  Sixteen. 
Raiskin:  Wow.  
Sheklow:  Yeah. I ran away from home at sixteen  and went to San Francisco 
when it was the Summer of Love. Be sure to wear some flowers in 
your hair. I don't remember how long I was gone. Long enough to 
cause a lot of pain to my parents who had no idea where I was. 
When I came home, they weren't sure what to do with me. I had a 
cousin who was living in Israel, and he said, "I'll take her." So they 
sent me to Israel. I lived there for two years, went as a volunteer 
after the Six-Day War in 1968.  
Long:  What was your volunteer work?  
Sheklow:  Everything, I lived on  Kibbutz. Worked in the kitchen, in the 
garden weeding, watering, washing dishes, grunt work. Learned a 
lot about what it means to be a Jewish people. I hadn't really 
thought of my Jewishness as a peoplehood before. It was like some 
kids are Catholics, some are Episcopalians, some are Jewish. I  
didn't really get that there was a whole other cultural identity to 
being Jewish. I definitely got that living in Israel for two years.  
Raiskin:  Did you like living  there?  
Sheklow:  Yeah, I loved it up until they wanted to recruit me into the army 
and I thought probably not a good idea. I better go home. 
Raiskin:  You left there and went where?  
Sheklow:  I left there. I went back to Palm Springs briefly. I'd been on my own 
for two years. It was very weird to have my mom wait up for me 
and worry about me and be mad at me and stuff for not coming 
home when she wanted. I wasn't ready to go to work so I thought, 
"Well, how about college?" I thought I'd like to go to Stanford, but I 
didn't have the grades for it so I went to Foothill Community 
College. When the U.S. invaded Cambodia, there was a big strike. I 
dropped out of school then. I don't know how much of this I want 
to get into. The anti-war movement and drug use were pretty 
interlaced. I got pretty heavy into doing speed and psychedelics 
and kind of burned my brain out a  bit. 
Raiskin:  Where were you living then?  
Sheklow:  I was living in Los Altos.  
Long:  What took you to the Bay Area or south Bay Area?  
Sheklow:  I thought I'd like to go to Stanford and so that got me up there. I 
never made it to Stanford. Yeah, I did some time in a nuthouse.  
Wow. Oh God. This whole chronology is sort of— Doesn't have 
much to do with lesbian community. I got strung out on drugs. I 
wasn't sure what to do. I went home to get rescued. My parents 
couldn't handle me. I was committed to residential rehab facility 
that I call a nuthouse. It was pretty corrupt and bizarre and I ran 
away from there. I was committed for six months. I stayed six 
weeks and went to live with some friends that I had met in college 
at Foothill who are still my friends and got a bad boyfriend. He was 
Jewish and Jewish men don't beat their wives. The fact that he was 
beating me up was— No one believed it.  I thought, Oh, if I could 
just get him to Oregon, we could bake whole wheat  bread and live 
in the country. He'd be peaceful and mellow and he wouldn't hit 
me anymore.  So we came to Oregon and he kept doing that abusive 
battering stuff. I discovered the lesbians in Eugene. I enrolled at U 
of O, took women's studies, what there was of women's studies 
courses then. A women's health class. Here's  where it gets happier.  
I was in a women's health class. We had been looking at cervixes 
and unshaved legs. We had a gay panel come to the class and 
Harriet Merrick was on that panel. She said, "My name is Harriet 
and I'm a lesbian." I thought, "Wow, actual human beings exist who 
are lesbians?" I thought it was like, I don't know, werewolves or 
unicorns or something where it's one of those mythological 
creatures. I was like,  "Wow, a real person?"  
 I told the instructor after the class that that really brought up some 
issues for me and I'd like to talk about it. We went to Mama's 
Homefried Truckstop which was at Fourteenth  and Alder where  
Pegasus Pizza is now. I think it's still there. Over herbal tea, I told 
her that it freaked me out that there was a lesbian and what did 
that mean? She said, "I think you'd make a wonderful lesbian." I 
thought, "Okay, I'll be one."  
Raiskin:  Do you remember who the instructor was?  
Sheklow:  I can't remember her name. She had aviator glasses and fry boots. I 
remember that. I went back and looked in my— I had my 
transcripts to try and identify the course and I don't  see a women's 
health class. I'm thinking it was maybe one of those workshop 
attached to a class kind of thing, a lab or something like that. I don't 
know, a guest speaker or something. I don't know who she was but 
thank the goddess for her. She was awesome, said the right thing.  
 In subsequent years, it's not a choice message has been a defense of 
queerness. That we just are who we are. I've felt like holding my 
tongue because I didn't want to disrupt that argument. But I felt 
like for me, it was very clearly a choice. I didn't want to deal with 
birth control anymore. I didn't want to  deal with men's gaze. I 
didn't want to deal with men's energy. I didn't want to lose my 
power anymore. I didn't know how to do that around men. I just 
wanted to be a lesbian. I was calling myself a lesbian for quite a 
while before I ever did it with anybody. I didn't think that was the 
deciding factor.  
Long:  What year was that again?   
Sheklow:  I think it was '73. Might have been toward the end of 1973 or 
beginning 1974. Right around then.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet other lesbians in Eugene?  
Sheklow:  There  was a dance. I went to a dance and there were these women 
dancing with each other with short hair and no makeup. "Oh, wow, 
you can do that? That's so cool." That was my first viewing of 
lesbians. Then when I started at the U of O, there was a practicum 
or something like that where you could work in the community. I 
worked at the Women's Center, that building is still standing barely 
at First and  Washington Street. It's an old, ramshackle little, I don't 
know, house probably built in the 1920s. Old house. The first Rape 
Crisis Center was there. There was a huge poster, “Women Are Not 
Chicks”  on the wall. We had a hotline and we had collective 
meetings. I was working there probably half the term before— At 
one of the collective meetings, this woman, Thea, I don't remember 
her last name. I haven't seen her in many decades, said, "As a 
lesbian, I feel—" I thought, I'm sitting in a room full of lesbians. 
What was happening?  Yeah. It kind of took me a while to get a 
clue.  
Raiskin:  How old were you then?  
Sheklow:  Twenty-three. Yeah. I actually had a boyfriend at that time, a nice 
guy. He used to let us have dickless sex. He had long hair. He 
would let me braid his hair, comb his hair. He would swirly dance. 
We'd go to the gay bar together. He was so swishy and sweet and  
wonderful. He lived across the street from a collective household of 
lesbians who he bought his pot  from, his marijuana when it was 
illegal back in the olden days. I started going across the street to 
score for him. Then I started staying there and not staying with 
him. Actually, it was Kitty Riley who went by the name of Raven 
who said to me, "Would you like to make love with me?" I said, 
"Yes." And we did. I was official after that. Yeah. So that's how I 
met lesbians through social justice work and drugs.  
Raiskin:  Were there any social events or dances at that time?  
Sheklow:  Well, there had been that one dance where I saw women dancing 
with each other. I'm not sure what the context was for that. Some 
community thing and then there was the Women's Center. Those 
women socialized and had book exchanges and other interactions 
to sort of— it was very counterculture. It was like, "Let's don't 
participate in the man's culture. Let's make our own and we'll have 
our own library." There wasn't a bookstore yet. Do self-exam and 
treat our own yeast infections and be independent and empowered. 
Yeah, that was the message. 
Raiskin:  Where were you living? Did you move into that house?  
Sheklow:  I didn't move into that house. I'm trying to remember my first— I 
remember living with some other students in a house at Tenth  and 
Monroe. I moved around a lot. A lot of women did.  I can't really 
remember where— once  I moved out from living with Roger, I 
kind of moved a while around until I got on a lesbian softball team.  
Then the coach, oh, she was a hardcore butch and she was 
awesome. I was twenty-three, she was fifty-six, and I had a button 
that said, "I like older women." I was so proud. She wanted to be 
my girlfriend. It was so great. I ended up living on her ranch. That 
was the CV Ranch. Her name was Gertrude Cassidy. We called her 
Trudy. Some people called her Gert. She and her former partner 
had got this ranch together, 250 acres out the Lorane Highway  and 
raised cattle and were independent. She taught me how to use a 
chainsaw and drive a tractor and castrate bulls. It was awesome. I 
loved living on the ranch. You could hang out with your shirt off. 
My dog didn't have to be on a leash. It was heaven living on the 
ranch. There were seven or eight houses there that different women 
lived in at different times and formed community and played 
Shanghai Rummy with Trudy. She made her own wine and her 
own alcohol. I don't really know what it was. She distilled 
something.  
Long:  Do you know happened to her?  
Sheklow:  Yeah. She ended up getting Alzheimer's and died in the sort of 
recent past like maybe fifteen  years ago or something like that. Her 
partner was Connie— can’t  remember her last name. She had a sad 
demise. Was under nursing care and stuff at the end. I was just 
with her for a couple years. She wanted me to be monogamous and 
I was like, "I'll try." But it was hard, so I couldn't. Yeah, I couldn't 
be. There was so many awesome women around. I couldn't just be  
with one. Yeah, took a lot of years before I was ready to just be with 
one person.  
Raiskin:  It wasn't really part of the community's ethos about sexuality to be 
monogamous at the time?  
Sheklow:  “Non-monoga-me, non-monoga-you, non-monog-your  friends at 
work and next door neighbors too, hey.” Yeah, it was sort of a 
popular way to be. Not everyone was non-monogamous. There 
was group sex events. Then there was a good joke going around 
about Southern women was, "Why don't Southern women like to 
have group sex? Because no one wants to send all those thank you 
notes." So yeah, it was pretty open and free in that way. My 
experience.  
Long:  So we're about late ‘70s at this point?  
Sheklow:  Yeah.  
Long:  Is that right?  
Sheklow:  Yeah.  
Long:  Can you describe maybe a typical weekend in the lesbian 
community in Eugene around that time?  
Sheklow:  I do have my calendars. I saved my calendars, which I'm happy to  
donate. Which women's music artists we went to see, which concert 
we went to, or softball games, or— I went to the bar, some, but not 
much. Wasn't really good environment for me. Being around the  
smoking and drinking wasn't really great. I was pretty much  a 
health nut. Gosh, I think it was 1976 that I started at Starflower. I 
think I wrote that down on something. Anyway, I was working at 
Starflower which was women owned and controlled natural foods 
collective. Let me correct that, worker owned and controlled 
natural foods collective. We distributed natural foods. This is 
before you could get a rice cake at Safeway. It was very 
revolutionary to have unprocessed and natural foods, whole grains 
and organically  grown foods. It was very social-change oriented 
and there were anywhere from twenty-five to thirty-five of us at 
any given time. Workers there ran the warehouse, drove the trucks, 
bought the food, sold the food, distributed to food buying clubs 
and co-ops and stuff. That became a social network. If there was a 
Starflower party, we all went there. We knew the food was going to 
be the same kind of food we distribute. You could go to any 
friend's refrigerator and there'd be the Tillamook  cheese and all this 
stuff that we sold, the organic sunflower seeds and whatever. I 
remember there was a big controversy, "Should we sell the carob 
chips?" Carob is so called alternative chocolate. This is before 
chocolate was acceptable socially. “Should we sell the carob chips 
with the brown sugar in them?” It's because sugar was not seen as 
revolutionary food. So, we stayed away from sugar. We ended up 
carrying it. A  lot of people  wanted it. 
 Anyway, so a typical weekend would be a Starflower party, go to a 
softball game. We used to have Sagittarius parties. Laurie  McLean, 
rest her soul, was the instigator. We used to say, "Let's have a  
Sagittarius party and I'll sit around and talk about how great we 
are." We did that. Various adventures. I don't know, depends on 
the weekend but a lot of us were training in martial arts together at 
that time in Amazon Kung Fu.  
Long:  That was a martial arts school?  
Sheklow:  There was a martial arts school run by Barbara Bones and Joyce 
Towne. I don't know if you're going to be able to interview either of 
them. But they were both black belts in Chuan Fa  Kung Fu. They 
opened a school and we trained there and learn to hit and take a hit 
and defend ourselves. That was really empowering and exciting. 
Sweating together and working out and getting strong and 
building our muscles and comparing our bruises. “If you see me 
walking down the street, and I start a fight, each time we meet, 
black my eye, black my eye. Just hit me with your left hand, let it 
fly. The chops and the kicks and the punches really get me high. So 
black my eye.” Yeah, like that. That song really got me in a lot of 
trouble. Introduced me to a whole new world. I was training in 
Kung Fu at Amazon Kung Fu School. There was a Kung Fu 
weekend competition, demonstration and workshops kind of thing 
of all different martial arts forms. Our school gave a demonstration. 
Of course I had to sing that song. Everyone's super serious doing 
our martial arts stuff, "And now Hayfield  will sing a song." I sang 
that song and these two women came up to me afterwards and 
said, "Would you like to come down to our campsite and talk?" I 
said, "Sure." They were totally into bondage and other SM stuff that  
I had no idea about. Didn't know it even existed, had never heard 
of it. They were telling me about all this stuff they do with and to 
each other. I'm trying to act cool like, Oh. Well, where am I? What's 
happening?  It kind of opened  up another world for me like, Wow. 
Sexuality is more than just what I had known and that people 
played  with power and trust and discipline and surrender in whole 
different ways. I got involved in the scene about that for a while. 
There was a group called Portland Power and Trust that I went to 
from Eugene. That was women who were exploring and 
experiencing  exchange of power. I guess that  would be the way to 
say it. I went to some parties there and stuff. One time came home 
with a very bruised behind and decided, Kind of had enough of 
that. That was fun but—. Yeah. It wasn't really my core erotic 
modality. Although I did write a porno piece for On Our Backs  from 
my experience with that. That was kind of fun.  
Long:  Before we get too far away from Starflower, can you tell us what 
was your job at Starflower?  
Sheklow:  Starflower, at the time we were on Lawrenc e Street that's right up 
by the railroad tracks in Eugene. We had a big warehouse that had 
a huge refrigerator unit where we'd store the cheese. I was a 
warehouser. I  was hired as a warehouser. That means unloading 
fifty pound bags from tracks and using a pallet jack and stacking 
bags and loading trucks to go out on runs. Singing in the 
warehouse, I have a whole stack I will give you of Starflower songs  
about cheese and grain. There's a Starflower natural anthem. I'd be 
happy to sing for you. Would you like to hear that?  
Raiskin:  Please.  
Sheklow:  Okay. “Oh, sesame seed, pinto beans and brown rice, what so 
proudly we stock to the six o'clock meeting. Invoices and phone 
calls handled by the deskies, while the truckers on runs were so 
gallantly driving and the per cheese beware bookie say cash ain’t  
there still margins must rise while our prices stay fair. Oh say does 
that Starflowered banner yet wave, o’r the land of the cheese and 
home of the grain.” 
Long:  Thank you.  
Raiskin:  Very good, thank you.  
Sheklow:  Starflower was a great place to learn about socialism. We tried to 
have a socialist business in a capitalist culture, which was very 
tricky, but we shared power in governance of the business. My role 
at first was strictly working in the warehouse,  doing all the heavy 
lifting kind of jobs. Then, I had a back injury and so I needed to 
find work that wasn't with all the lifting and stuff. I started being 
the on the road sales representative, traveling around to all the 
different workshops— co-ops—is what I meant,  all the different co-
ops and natural food stores and letting them know what was 
available. Kind of being the face of our business out in the 
community, which  posed quite a quandary, Like, Should I wear a 
bra? Can I wear my Birkenstocks. Like, how much of myself can I  
reveal when I'm out there?  But Starflower was very out about who 
we were and that we were mostly lesbians, except for dear Chip, 
our gay man receptionist who was  great. All these dykes lifting 
bags and diving tracks and, there’s Chip. He'd get on the 
loudspeaker and sing little songs into the warehouse, would come 
out over the loudspeaker. Yeah, he was very acceptable, man. I 
thought he was great. Anyway— 
Raiskin:  How many people worked at Starflower when you were— 
Sheklow:  I think sometimes they were as few as twenty-five and then as 
many as thirty-five at different times. In the collective meetings, 
we'd be learning things about business management. After my back 
injury, I took more of that kind of responsibility and learned a lot 
about how to facilitate a collective meeting or a meeting in general. 
How to make an agenda, how to keep people to their time and 
other things that are still useful to this day.  
Long:  How did Starflower get started?  
Sheklow:  There were a couple of people who had a truck— I'm not the most 
reliable person for this part of the history because I came along 
after it was already going, but I think it was the rennetless cheese. 
They were able to make vegetarian cheese, so it didn't have animal 
rennet in it. They were distributing that and it was popular. I think 
they started doing herbs and spices early on, before there was a 
warehouse. They were just doing it out of Charlie and Debbie 
Glass’  house I think. It was the very beginning. But it always had  
the vision  of being a worker-owned and controlled collective and 
not being a top down management style business.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember your interview?  
Sheklow:  Yes, I do.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about that?  
Sheklow:  Yes. I wrote a whole piece about it in one of the Women’s Press  
[issue]  that I think I gave you, yeah. Or maybe it's in the copy I still 
have at home but I will give it to you. Well, just to back up a hair, 
one of the times that I was at Mama's Homefried Truckstop at 
Fourteenth  and Alder, in Eugene. The collective meetings were 
held there and I'd see these women, these tough, well spoken, 
outspoken women running this business and making decisions 
together then "I want to be part of that." So, when I heard there was 
an opening, I went to fill out an application. I heard back after my 
application was accepted that there were five of us who were going 
to be interviewed for a position. There were two positions open, 
and they had five people to interview. I went to the bar that night, 
and there were three of the other applicants were there and we 
started talking about how excited and anxious we were about 
interviewing for a job at Starflower because Starflower, was like, 
"Wow, the greatest." We decided that in order to break down the 
anxiety and the alienation we'd feel going in there one at a time, we 
would go into our interviews together as a group. At my 6:00 PM 
appointed time  for my interview, all five of us walked in, and they  
were a little taken aback but also curious. We told them that we 
would like to be interviewed together if we could, and they said, 
"Can we talk about that for half an hour and let you know?" 
"Okay." We all went out and sat on the stairs and pat each other on 
the back and said, "Yes, we did this really great thing." They came 
out and said, "Okay, sure, come on in." They asked us questions 
about feminist analysis, class analysis, and our feelings about 
working with men was one of the questions because there were 
some there at that time. It was mostly about politics and working 
together. I had been reading Mao’s  little red book On Practice, and 
said that you can't learn something unless you're doing it, and so 
we wanted to have socialist values and so how could we learn 
about them if we weren't doing them? That's why we wanted to be 
interviewed together. It was to do it. That was great. The interview 
was pretty high and exciting and fun to talk about being able to 
work in that kind of— with those values of being socialist. They 
then sent us out, then they had us each come back in very briefly 
for a moment, and then a few days later, I got a phone call. I was 
one of the people that was hired. Sydney Putnam and I were hired 
there and it was pretty thrilling. Very thrilling time. I don't know, 
when I read the piece that I wrote about it, I didn't write about 
what happened to the other three applicants and if we stayed 
connected or not. I can't really remember even  who they were. But 
there was a detail about it at the bar that night when we decided to 
do this rebellious thing of going into the interview together. Paula 
Jo had been there and we told her about it. She was working at  
Starflower and she said she supported us and thought it was a 
good idea. When we all walked in there, all five of us, she said, "I 
think they have something to say,  let's give them a chance." We had 
an ally on the inside to go into that review.  
 I had been out of college for a little  while, been trying to find a job. 
My degree was in broadcasting and I was trying to find a job in 
broadcasting because I wanted to eradicate sexism from television, 
which you can see I've been very successful  at. I couldn't find a job 
and in my piece that  I was just rereading one of the interviewers, 
that one of these other awful job interviews said, "You're too cute to 
be in production work. You should be somewhere you could be 
seen.” It was just so weird. I was like, "I don't want to work in an 
environment where I have to put on uncomfortable clothes to even 
do an interview and stifle myself." It was so great to work 
somewhere where they really wanted you to be your whole-self 
with your visions of what the future could be in. Yeah, it was an 
awesome interview.  
Long:  How long did you work there?  
Sheklow:  Seven years. Very formative years and I'm close friends with a lot 
of the people that I worked with there, Judy, being one. And Paula 
Jo, still, too, and  other people. It was very bonding. I feel like we 
grew up then. That was our more learning how to be responsible 
for who we were in the world and how to make our way without 
depending on anyone else to bail us out. It was bonding.   
Raiskin:  Do you remember specific conflicts amongst people who worked at 
Starflower?  
Sheklow:  Like when we all had our period at the same time? Yeah, what I 
remember of the conflicts at Starflower were mostly about breaking 
up and jealousy. There were all these awesome women working 
together. Always there were a few men I should acknowledge, 
there were some men at some times, but  there were so many 
awesome women who were just strong and muscular and doing 
good things. It was hard to not be attracted to each other. Jealousies 
arose. We had to deal with that stuff. I think that was probably the 
worst of it and the conflict of the brown sugar and the carob chips. I 
mean, can you really be  a socialist and make a profit?  That was 
really what it came down to. It was very challenging.  
Raiskin:  Was there any conflict over pay or class or responsibilities? 
Sheklow:  I remember a conflict about the bra— What's it called stipend or 
something, that some of the women who drove trucks needed to 
have good bras because the trucks are bouncy, and good bras are 
expensive. They felt like as part of their work requirements to drive 
this truck, that they should be able to get a bra. Other women felt 
like, "Well, she gets whatever it was, $16 or whatever much it was 
to buy a bra, then I should get the $16." There was some of that. We 
had money for childcare for the women who had kids. So what 
about women who don't have kids? Should they get some money 
too? Those kind of things came up. We had a draw shelf if we 
broke a bag and we couldn't sell it. We would just give it to  
ourselves as workers and keep it on the draw shelf. If you were out 
of rice, you could go take a bag of rice or whatever. There was 
conflict over, “Oh, I saw so and so taking two pounds of cheese and 
I thought we were only supposed to take  the stuff that had been 
moldy  and we had to trim it.” I don't know, kind of trying to just 
work out entitlements like what could we really afford ourselves? 
And where did we have to have some discipline around not 
indulging in things that we couldn't really afford to do. Some stuff 
like that. We got olive oil in fifty-five gallon drums and we would 
decant it into five gallon containers we called deltangulars. When 
you're filling deltangular, you sit on a little bench almost like a 
milking stool and you're decanting the oil on a tap into the smaller 
container. It takes a long time. So you'll have enough time to get up 
and go the bathroom. Will you  have enough time to go have a 
conversation and sometimes you'd forget that you had this oil 
running and the oil would  spill everywhere. We would have to 
deal with that and make some rules about, "You have to stay there 
if the tap is open," and stuff like that. Yeah, just protecting the 
product and each other. Figuring out how to express our feelings, 
We had lessons in criticism, self-criticism, we shared the book. 
"When you let the oil run over, I feel angry because there's goes our 
profits of oil we can't sell, therefore, I want you to stay by the oil 
drum when the tap is open." Learned how to say it in a way that 
wasn't blamey and just expressed your own feelings using I 
statements, that kind of stuff.  
Long:  Takes a lot of energy to do that.   
Sheklow:  Yeah. I think we put a lot of— I'll speak for myself. I put a lot of 
faith in those skills that we said we needed to learn, like, okay, 
criticism, self-criticism. If I'm having a fight with a girlfriend and 
she says, "You always” or “You never," then I say, "Now let's 
rephrase that.” Try to actually follow that stuff because how can 
you get along with each other  if you're shaming and blaming?  I 
learned a  lot about how to  relate to people. Yeah. There was  a hole 
in the wall. Actually, the person who kicked the hole in the wall at 
our first gathering here. I don't know if you've had a chance to 
interview her yet. But anyway, I said, "We had the memorial Sherri 
Yeager  hole in the wall from where you kick that hole." She 
explained to me what a frustrating day she'd had. She'd been on a 
trucking run and she just came back and someone was getting on 
her case. She was so angry. She just kicked the wall and didn't  
know that  the drywall was going to give way and her foot was 
going to go through. There was always this hole. It was like, "Our 
anger hole. Manage your anger because you don't want to kick 
holes on our wall."  
Raiskin:  So Starflower, did you work there till it closed?  
Sheklow:  I think it closed maybe a couple years after I left. I left to— went 
back to grad school. I felt like I needed  to move on, what was 
happening?  Well, for one thing, we had been very successful in 
getting people to eat natural foods and  they were becoming more 
widely available. The competition for our products— we couldn't 
keep up. The huge distributors were taking over. The mainstream  
grocery stores were carrying our products, which was great for 
sales, but they wanted to buy from people who could supply them 
with tons of things that we could only supply hundreds of pounds 
of, that kind of stuff. It was starting to go downhill and I sort of saw 
the writing on the wall that Starflower was not long for the world. 
It had changed.  We, in desperation , had hired outside management 
to come in and try to whip us into shape to be able to survive the 
changing times. That created a kind of a top down structure that 
wasn't really— Are we just a food distributor, are we just a 
business? Is that when it's come down to?  That wasn't really what I 
wanted to do. So I left, I'm going to have a hard time with years, I 
think in '84 and came to the U of O to go to grad school. Got my 
master’s here. Starflower I think ended in '86 or '87 or something 
right around then. Not sure.  
Raiskin:  What did you get your masters in?  
Sheklow:  Leisure Studies and Services, it's called, which always sounds to me 
like learning how to sit in the hammock. Which is not that bad of an 
idea but that wasn't really what I studied. It's  kind of like parks and 
rec hospitality, that kind of stuff.  
Raiskin:  Why did you choose that? What were you seeing as your future?  
Sheklow:  I saw that they were offering me a full scholarship and kind of 
recruited me. I was thinking about grad school. I wasn't sure I 
thought maybe speech pathology or something like  that. My 
undergraduate, the broadcasting studies were in the Speech  
Department, I thought maybe I could do something there and it 
turned out— it’s a spider— it turned out the Leisure Studies and 
Services Program was heavily recruiting and had some grant 
money to fund people. There was a program on, in therapeutic 
recreation, which was the path that I went on and ended up doing 
my internship with Susan Sygall  at Mobility International— 
international exchange for people with disabilities. That was 
political enough for me to get behind it. It was exciting to be able to 
advocate for marginalized people.  We had Ellen Knepper  who has 
since died. Was a disability advocate activist when I was at  
Starflower. She used to have us do things like wear goggles that 
had Vaseline on them, or walk around the warehouse in a 
wheelchair or other things to help us learn about what life was like 
for people with disabilities. I had a little bit of consciousness  about 
disability rights from that. That's what I thought I would do with 
my degree and ended up working at Willamette AIDS Council, 
which was not exactly it, but it was also when the homophobia of 
the burgeoning AIDS pandemic was so obviously needing to be 
dealt with.  That's where I found work.  
Raiskin:  Do you want to tell us a little bit about the work there?  
Sheklow:  Okay. Well, thank goodness for all that sexual exploration I'd done 
because I had to do a lot of talking about semen and anal sex and 
cunt juice and other things that would help me help other people 
learn about safer sex and AIDS prevention stuff, and to talk about 
the spread of HIV when it wasn't being publicly talked about. You  
couldn't get a condom like you can now. You had to get it from a 
pharmacist and ask for it. I mean, it was really weird. A lot of sex 
negativity and homophobia were making it impossible to talk 
about how to protect ourselves and each other. I was doing 
educational outreach and teaching people how to put condoms on 
bananas and where to get lube and writing grants for condoms and 
other safe sex stuff.  I actually had a safe sex kit in a little gold lame 
suitcase with different kinds of water soluble personal lubricants 
and a dildo and condoms and dental dams. I can't remember 
everything else, latex gloves and stuff. That became part of The 
Sound of Lesbians  show was the Maria of— The Von Tramp family 
that was the center of the show of Sound of Lesbians. 
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about The Sound of Lesbians? 
Sheklow:  Yeah. Here's the Sound of Lesbians. The Sound of Lesbians. It was my 
lesbian musical comedy parody of The Sound of Music. It was 
originally inspired when my friend, Laura Philips, and her 
girlfriend, Liz Rosenblatt and I went up to Portland to see JoAnne 
Loulan  who was a lesbian sex therapist, give a talk and workshop 
on lesbian sexuality. Part of the workshop was we broke up into 
small groups. In those small groups, we were supposed to talk 
about what we liked and what we fantasized about sexually, which 
was pretty hot. On the drive home, Laura and Liz and I had all 
been in different groups and were talking about all the different 
things that women had said. The next thing you know, “My 
Favorite Things” song was written in the car on the way home.   
 [singing] “Labia like roses and whiskers on women, licking her 
cunt till I feel like I’m swimmin’, lovers in leather all tied up with  
strings, these are a few of my favorite things.”  It went like that. I 
said to Laura, "We should do the whole musical." She said, "No, we 
should do one song from all the different musicals." So we split 
ways creatively, and I ended up writing this and performing it. I 
got through fifteen  paid performances of the whole show The Sound 
of Lesbians  before I was called by Rodgers and Hammerstein’s 
copyright attorney and ordered to cease and desist. But it was 
pretty fun and I got to take out my safe sex kit and have Maria 
teach the Von Tramp family all about safe sex.  
Raiskin:  Where did you perform it?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Sheklow:  Willamette Street  Theater, which no longer exists, which was on 
Willamette Street between Broadway and Tenth. It was a little 
theater house that was started by Steve Bove  who had—also dearly 
departed—who had been in a comedy group called Live Matinee. 
That comedy group was sort of like Eugene's resident comedy 
troupe. They put on shows frequently and Steve was  a movie buff. 
He got this theater so he could have— show films and have Live 
Matinee perform there and have other local artists perform there.  I 
was booked to perform there. I have some videos of that show. I 
can share. I also traveled around, I did  a wedding, I did a couple of 
other parties, and can't remember all the different places I 
performed. But that was the one actual theater.   
 Oh, after I got the cease and desist order from this obvious lesbian 
who was the attorney for Rodgers and Hammerstein, she said, "Not 
that I think it's not funny, but—" So I said, "Oh, but I already have 
the show booked." She said, "Well, don't tell anybody but you can 
have this one last show and then that's it, cease and desist." I had 
posters for the show with banned,  a banner that said "Banned" 
across the front. It happened to be Banned Books week at the 
bookstores. They all put my poster up with this "Banned" across the 
front. I had a really good crowd at the WOW Hall and performed 
it, my final performance of Sound of Lesbians  there.  
Raiskin:  Will you sing us a song?  
Sheklow:  Sure. Well, here they are. Would you like to make a selection?  
Long:  While Julee  looks at that, let me ask you— 
Sheklow:  Yes. 
Long:  You studied broadcasting. Where did your talent come for this kind 
of performance?  
Sheklow:  Well, my mom had been a writer and my dad had been a 
performer. My dad, when he was growing up, his both sets of 
grandparents are from the old country in Russia, Jewish 
immigrants. His mother ran a boarding house out of their home 
and would house  the black entertainers  who would come through 
Chicago, who weren't allowed to stay in the segregated hotels.  So, 
as a little kid, my dad would be in this boarding house and  hear the  
black comedy acts rehearsing for their shows. He memorized their 
shticks and that was our bedtime stories of these old comedy 
routines. I think that was always just sort of almost genetically 
inherited stuff from my dad. Making up parodies, I guess I just 
have always done it. I— somehow making fun of stuff was the way 
to take the— I don't know. Take the sting out of difficult things. If 
you could make it funny, it was survivable. I think there was a 
thread of that. I mean, I wrote so many songs about the warehouse. 
“I've got a friend in cheeses,” “Bringing in the cheese” and all those  
warehouse songs and trucking songs and songs about natural 
foods and stuff. Yeah, just whatever I've done, I've kind of written 
songs about it.  
Raiskin:  So the titles are on there, but why don't you do Maria? Since, uh— 
Sheklow:  Okay. Oh, the titles are on here? You didn't get them? Oh, I'm 
sorry, I gave you the wrong thing. Okay. Well, The Sound of Lesbians  
is the story of the lesbian sex therapist named Maria—as you  can 
see where these things came from—who goes to live with the 
family in Veneta, a collective household in Veneta called the Von 
Tramp Family. They're having hard times. They need to have a 
lesbian sex therapist come and teach them about things. Well, 
actually, I should start at the very beginning. Maria goes into this 
collective household and as I'm— Okay. Maria is in the Von Tramp 
household and she sings.  
 [singing:] “Let's start at the very beginning, a very good place to 
start, when you read you begin with ABC, when you sing you be—  
Sorry. When you read you begin with ABC, with sex you begin 
with me, me me, me, me, me. The first three steps just happen to be 
me, me, me, me, me, me. Me, me, me, me, me, me, me. Come, I'll 
make it easier for you.  Me a queer, a female queer, me , hardcore 
lesbian, me the one who loves myself. Me  who wants to have some 
fun. Me, who knows what's in my head? Me who understands my 
needs. Me who like a friend in bed that will bring us back to me, 
me, me, me.” That's how  that song went. They have their various 
lessons and workshops and hands-on experience with their lesbian 
sex therapist. One night little Gretel comes in and says, "Maria, I 
just am having this really hard time. I don't know what to do, and 
here's what's going on with me. [singing:] “How do you deal with 
your dysmenorrhea? How does it feel to give your cramps a name? 
How do you deal with your dysmenorrhea? The irritable moods, 
the blood on the sheets, the pain. Many a month you've wished that 
it was over. Many a month you've longed for menopause, but what 
can you do today to make the pain go away? A Tylenol 3, Advil, or 
Anprox? Oh, how do you deal with your dysmenorrhea? How do 
you cope with periodic blahs? When I have my bloods, I feel so 
disgusting, it's unreal and I cannot handle any kind of stress. Breast 
so tender and so sore, do not touch me anymore. All my sexy 
panties are a bloody mess. Oh, how do you deal with your 
dysmenorrhea? How can you be slut with PMS?”  
 The show goes through all the songs of the Broadway musical until 
it reaches the grand finale. Here I am doing this show in a theater 
with the audience full of all kinds of people. Not just my personal  
fans but a crowd. The grand finale, they all sing this song and it 
becomes a big audience sing-along in the spirit of unity and all that 
brings us together and all that we have in common, and all that we 
share. [singing:]“Clitoris, clitoris, every morning you greet me, 
small and good, shaft and hood, you look happy to meet me. 
Button of joy may  you swell and grow, swell and grow forever. 
Clitoris,  clitoris, bless our bodies forever.” Then I would sing it 
again and the whole audience would sing along. You need to hear 
these deep men's voices singing along. Wasn't this the greatest 
moment? When the show was over, I didn't have to be nervous 
anymore. It's was the final number. First of all, I've long felt like the 
clitoris is so under-publicized. Anyone can draw a picture of male 
genitalia, but what we have is more complicated.  I felt like it was  a 
personal mission to try and give some cred  to the clit. That was the 
finale of the show. It was pretty fun. A lot of my different 
experiences got to layer in  and be part of it. I really enjoyed doing 
it. 
 Sorry. I just recently had a visit from my cousin and his boyfriend, 
my cousin who's twenty-nine  and his boyfriend who's thirty. I'm 
like the old relic homo dyke auntie kind of cousin. I told him about 
this and they said, "Oh, can we watch it?" So we, last  month, just sat 
and watched the whole thing together. I was like, "Oh, God, what 
was I thinking? What nerve did I have in those days?" They really 
liked it. It was really fun. In such a different era, for young people 
having sex in the 2000-teens compared  to how it was for me in the 
‘70s and ‘80s. Anyway, yeah, that's The Sound of Lesbians.  
Raiskin:  So you've done a lot of— 
Long:  Thank you.  
Raiskin:  Thank you, yes.  
Sheklow:  You're welcome  
Raiskin:  You've done a lot of entertaining in town. Are we too far away 
chronologically from WYMPROV!? 
Sheklow:  No, not too far. Let's see. Sound of Lesbians— God, I'm horrible with 
dates. I'm sorry to say. At some point when that was over, there 
was a comedian who came to town who was giving a workshop 
after her standup  act. That was Karen Williams. Enid and I and a 
few other people went to the workshop that was after the comedy 
show called Healing with Humor. It was essentially improv games 
that we were playing in this workshop. Laura Philips was  in that 
group and a handful of other people. It was really fun. The games 
were fun. They were silly and goofy, an  everyone-can-do-it kind of 
thing. We said, "Let's keep doing it.” We got together and got space 
in the community centers. I don't know, I don't think it was once a 
week, but maybe twice a month we were getting together to play 
these improv games. At the time, which I'm sorry, I can't tell you 
the year. Maybe 1990-ish. Yeah, must have been. There was a group 
called One Common Thread that put on women's coffee houses in 
different locations. They one time had Condon School, which was 
now Agate Hall, a university outbuilding on Agate and Eighteenth, 
Nineteenth, right in there, in the big auditorium, cafetorium,  I think  
it probably was before. They were having the coffeehouse there and 
they needed a performer. They said, "Hey, how would this group 
that's been getting together to play improv games together like to 
perform for the coffeehouse?" The rats jumped the ship and the five 
of us who were left decided we would be a comedy troupe and 
we'd go perform.  We went and had publicity photos taken, and at 
the last minute, the fifth one who worked in the school district said 
she couldn't risk being an out lesbian in a lesbian comedy troupe. 
We had to just cut the photo. We were all lined up, we had been in 
the Ben Linder room at the UO all lined up over the railing, all our 
faces like this, five faces. We just sliced her out and made a stack so 
there's two faces and two faces. Would be the four of us for our first 
publicity shot. We performed at that coffee house and people were 
just in the aisles, well, there were no aisles but there were people 
rolling, laughing, it was so much fun. We had a great time doing it. 
We said, "So I guess we're a comedy troupe." We performed 
together for seventeen  years. Is that right? No, twenty-seven  years. 
Twenty-seven  years, we just— last November of 2017. No, April of 
2018 was supposed to be our final show. It was supposed to be a 
show. We thought it would probably be our final show. We were in 
rehearsal for that show and we were getting ready to sign the 
contract. We looked around at each other and said, "Not sure I 
want to keep doing this. I'd be okay if we didn't." Everyone said, 
"Yeah, but we have this whole rehearsal schedule. Let's still get 
together to play."   
 After twenty-seven  years of performing improv comedy together, 
we decided to become a Mahjong group. Now we play Mahjong 
once a week and we're still very bonded.  
Raiskin:  All Women's Health?  
Sheklow:  Yeah. Sorry. 
Raiskin:  You were the director of that?  
Sheklow:  I was development director.  
Raiskin:   Development director.  
Sheklow:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  How did you end up working there?  
Sheklow:  Let's see. This was 1992. The Feminist Women's Health Center in  
Portland was opening a satellite clinic in Eugene to do abortions 
and other reproductive healthcare. I can't even remember how I 
heard about it, but I went and said, "I'll do anything. I want to be 
part of a feminist organization, and I believe in women's  
reproductive rights. What can I do?" "Will you raise money?" I said 
I would and they said, "Okay." Which I had done for other things, 
the various political campaigns that we didn't talk about. If you're 
not afraid to raise money, you can have a job pretty  much  
anywhere. I went to work there and was doing community 
building, going around to classes doing workshops, showing 
women how to do self-exam and yeah. Kind of stayed a common  
thread of my other experience. We were firebombed by Shelley 
Shannon who was just recently released from prison. So it's a little 
bit scary times coming back again now.  
Long:  Can you explain what that was?  
Sheklow:  Yeah, Shelley Shannon was an anti-abortion vigilante from Grants 
Pass, Oregon who believed that killing abortion doctors or people 
who worked in clinics that did abortion was holy work. She shot an 
abortion doctor in both his arms who actually came back to work 
the next week. Never showed any remorse for doing that and has a 
lot of support that what she was doing was good and holy work to 
save the babies kind of thing. She was sentenced to prison. I can't 
remember how many years she did, many. She just was released 
now in 2018. She's back out there. She has massive financial 
support from the anti-abortion  movement and they're frighteningly 
gaining a lot of traction and power right now.  So that's happening.  
Raiskin:  Do you want to  go back and talk about the measures and what that 
was like for you during the roll- coaster of those?  
Sheklow:  Hmm… okay. 
Long:  You were here for Referendum 51, weren't you?  
Sheklow:  [singing:] “Fight for your rights  gay men and lesbians on May 
twenty-third. Vote no on 51.” There you go. Yes. I was.  
Raiskin:  Many people weren't here for 51, so maybe that was the—   
Sheklow:  Yeah. The city council, I believe it was of Eugene had passed 
protections in Housing and Public Accommodation and 
Employment. You can be discriminated against on the basis of, I 
think at that time, they were saying sexual preference. Those 
protections were challenged and defeated in Measure 51. We 
organized a campaign to protect the protections, but we weren't 
able to succeed. But I remember going door to door with Laurie  
McLain I had a little button that said, "What do gay people want? 
Ask me." I said to Laurie, "What do we want? I don't know. What 
do we want? Good food. I don't know." She said, "Well, we want 
equal rights, Sally.” It's so okay." Yeah.  
 I thought all the campaigns were really helpful for galvanizing our 
community and getting people to take a  stand if they were allies. I 
think it was first Measure 9. The U of O football team came out 
against Measure 9, which was a ballot initiative in Oregon to 
change our state constitution to say that homosexuality was wrong, 
unnatural, abnormal, and perverse. That would have been in our 
constitution. The football team of all people said, "That's un-
sportsman-like. That's not okay." Then allies really started coming 
out of the woodwork. It was still a pretty closetey time for a lot of 
people. I was never in the closet, so it wasn't my experience. But 
there were a lot of people who were  afraid to let anyone know that 
they were gay or lesbian or bi or trans, or any  other sexuality that 
wasn't so-called mainstream or identity.   
 Having to fight these horrible ballot measures, I was like, "Okay. 
You can be out about who you are, and you can be out about who 
you stand up for, because you have to be. That's the only way we're 
going to defeat this you can't defeat it in the closet." Also, Harvey 
Milk, his voice was heard pretty well nationally of, "You have to 
burst down those closet doors.” That's the only way.  People were 
coming out, both as queer and as allies. I thought that was very 
heartening. Of course, I wrote a lot of funny songs and was able to 
perform those songs at fundraisers for the campaigns and that felt 
useful. Something that I could that would help lift the mood, it was 
pretty horrible. I remember, probably the worst thing for me was I 
had read some horrible— I think it was in a voter's pamphlet. God, 
what was the guy's name?  
Raiskin:  Scott Lively or Lon Mabon? 
Sheklow:  Not them. There was a guy— I can't remember his name but I do 
have a song about Scott and Lon. Happy to sing it. Anyway, 
Cameron, Paul Cameron. He had all these horrible lies about gay 
people in the voters pamphlet. "Homosexuals consume 2.4 pounds 
of feces  a year.” Horrible, horrible stuff like that. I remember I was 
having sex with Enid and I just had this momentary flash of "Am I 
horrible?" It was just brief and you couldn't have a more self-
loving, self-accepting person than I am, but the fact that it would 
even just drift through my  consciousness at that moment. I was 
like, "Okay, these people really have to be stopped. This is 
damaging to the soul. I'm at very low risk of anything bad  
happening to me for coming out because I've been so out. But there 
are people that would lose their kids or lose their jobs or be kicked 
out of their houses or whatever and feel like they were a bad 
person and deserved it somehow." That moment was bad, but the 
overall effect to me of all those campaigns was that more people 
felt compelled to find their pride and self-confidence and their 
voice as a queer person. So, I thank the OCA in that way. I mean, 
they're horrible people,  a “basket of deplorables.” 
Raiskin:  How did you feel about the marriage equality movement?  
Sheklow:  That was exciting for  me. WYMPROV! had a song. [singing:] 
“We're getting married in Hawaii. Ding dong, the bells are going to 
chime.” We were pretty excited when it looked like Hawaii was 
going to make marriage equality a reality.  
Raiskin:  I think that was 1993?  
Sheklow:  That sounds right. Maybe a little bit later. Don't quote me. The 
conservative convention came to Hawaii to stop the marriage 
equality that was looking like it was going to pass and fought it 
and defeated it. Then it was, I think Vermont, was going to do civil 
unions. Each state was trying to pass something. I was writing my 
column for Eugene Weekly  then and it really gave me a platform and 
a voice to speak out in favor. I had little bit of qualms about, "Oh, is 
it a heterosexual institution? Do we want to just mimic what 
straight people do?" But I saw the bigger impact of— people 
understood what marriage was and people who didn't understand  
gay people or lesbians for sure, like, "What do they do?" Could get 
marriage that resonated with people in a way that really made a 
difference. I think it was the marriage equality movement and 
struggle and message that caused the shift that we experience  now, 
I think. I can anywhere refer to Enid as my wife and people go, 
"Oh. That's so nice, and I have a gay son." It's like it opens the door 
and it's very acceptable to be married and to refer to your partner 
as your spouse. Not that I've wanted to be mainstream, but I've 
wanted to change the world. That seemed to be an effective way to 
do it. Of course, lot of nasty stuff was flung around, still is about 
why we shouldn't have equal rights. There's a lot of dehumanizing 
attempts, but I don't think they can be successful now because the 
page turned.  
Raiskin:  You got married before marriage, do you want to talk about your 
wedding?  
Sheklow:  Oh, sure. Yeah. “My big fat Jewish wedding.” Yes. June 21, 1998. 
When it looked like Hawaii was going to make marriage legal,  I got 
down on one knee and I asked Enid, who I'd been with for ten 
years already, I had a little ring that came from a gumball machine 
that had a dime  in it. I said, "With this dime-in-ring, will you marry 
me?" She said, "Yes." We started meeting with our Rabbi to talk 
about getting married. It was a big issue for him. He said, "Well, 
you could call it a covenant of the heart. You could do it in a park." 
"We want to call it a wedding and do it in the shul, in the 
synagogue." He struggled with it. We met with him many times  
before he embraced it. It was worth having that struggle because 
we love him dearly and see him as our spiritual leader and we 
wanted him on board with us. When he finally did come around, 
we started planning the wedding. We had it as traditional as it 
could be considering it was two women. We followed the order of 
the marriage ceremony that's part of Jewish tradition. We had a 
Ketubah wedding document written up that followed the text, no 
alternative stuff. Because, if you are entitled to the real deal, then 
you want to have something alternative to that. But if you're not 
entitled to it, you want it. Yeah. We had our friends, Kate and Amy, 
designed the invitations and the thank-you cards. Our friend 
Georgie made our outfits. We had sky blue and white robes with 
peace and love in Hebrew embroidered on the collars. We really 
got into it, planning it. It was so fun. I got a Martha Stewart 
wedding planner magazine out of some dentist's office or 
something and it said, "Well, if you manage things carefully, you 
could have a very nice wedding for only $10,000." I was like, 
"What?" “Wah!” We had a whole different idea of how we're going 
to do it. Our friend Kathy Buckalew, the famous lesbian 
photographer, came from Delaware to be our wedding 
photographer. We had flowers from our garden be the flowers. We 
actually paid a Klezmer band. We were members of the synagogue, 
so the hall was free. Our friend Cina Kraft who's a DJ on KLCC, the 
local National Public Radio affiliate, catered. A friend of ours made 
cakes for us, donated the cakes. We had a cake sampling before the 
wedding. I can't remember all the little details. Wedding planning,  
it was such a foreign thing. It had never been in my life script to be 
a bride. We used to go to the beach and practice stomping on shells 
so we could break the glass together, how we were going to do it. 
Whose right foot and whose left foot standing next to each other so 
we could smash the glass at the end of the ceremony. All the 
negotiating and planning that we did to figure out and stuff like the 
guest list and all those things. I wanted everybody and Enid 
wanted a small intimate group. I think we ended up with about 
seventy  people there. It was really fun. The traditional ceremony 
has seven blessings. We had seven different friends of ours stand 
and read those blessings. David  Helphand played the harp as 
people were entering and it was just lovely and high and 
wonderful. Joan Bayless  and Irwin Noparstak  were our wedding 
planners. Well, actually, John was the wedding planner and Irwin 
was “her lovely assistant” as he wanted to be called. They had just 
come back from Hawaii the day before our wedding (though  we 
had met with them for months before planning everything) and 
brought us these beautiful white flower garlands  from Hawaii with 
Frangipani and just awesome flowers. We both had on these crown 
white flower crowns and it was a really high, awesome day. 
Unfortunately, Enid had a slight fever that day. Which she now 
sings, "We got married in a fever."  The wedding was great and the 
harpist’s sister happened to be in  town visiting, Judith Helphand, 
and she just took over and organized, "Okay, and now we do this 
dance, and now we lift them up in the chair, and now we stand in 
circle, and now—"  She just was instant entertainment coordinator.  
That was really fun. The food was great. We had games, we had a 
little photo booth, we had a banner with our names and the date on 
it. People wanted to take their picture with us and so many 
households around Eugene have a picture of them with us and that 
banner on their fridge from  our wedding. We had matchbooks.  
Raiskin:  Did you get legally married when it was possible?  
Sheklow:  Yeah. That wedding was legal in the Jewish tradition only. The 
Rabbi signed it and our witnesses signed it and that’s framed. 
When domestic partnership passed in Eugene, which I think it was 
2014—I’m not positive. I think that was right. Then we got 
domestic partnered or “DP’d” which we found out later stands for 
double penetration. We thought that was pretty funny. Then in 
2000— I can't remember what year— it had been legal in Canada 
for a little while before we decided— well, actually, what happened 
was, we were going to Canada for a vacation and Enid said, "Hey, 
we can get married when we're there." We wanted a Rabbi to do it. 
But in Canada, clergy are not  empowered like they are here to 
conduct weddings so the rabbi was new and was not also a 
wedding officiant, there's some commissioner or something, the 
word they use in Canada. The rabbi said, "But I know a 
commissioner who's Jewish who would be very nice." So, we went 
to her house. She had Pachelbel's Canon playing. She had her son's 
bar mitzvah picture up on the mantel, so it felt Jewish. I cried 
through the whole thing. Enid cried through the whole thing. It 
was so sweet that it was really legal. It was  happening. Then she  
had these fancy little champagne flutes and she poured pink Koala 
in the champagne flutes and we toasted. She wrote our names in 
the annals of Canadian history to be official. I mean, it was real. 
That was amazing to have it be legal somewhere. If it could be legal 
somewhere, it can be legal everywhere. I really felt like it was going 
to happen for sure even though there was still quite a bit of 
struggle before it did.  
 But yeah, I think we were married in 1993 at the National March on 
Washington. There was a giant wedding in front of the IRS 
building in Washington, 10,000 couples. We had a rainbow flag 
with us that was our Chuppah  that our friends Kate and Amy  held 
for us along with this 9,999 other people getting married. Reverend 
Troy Perry was the officiant. He is a gay clergy person who has had 
his church burned for being gay and has been a voice for coming 
out and that God loves you  kind of message long before any other 
congregations were doing that. He was already pretty old by then. 
He had his loud speaker and he was saying the vows, "Repeat after 
me," and all these 10,000 voices echoing. One of the things he said, 
"And I promise I will always be aware of your needs." We heard, "I 
will always be aware of your knees," which turned out to be 
prophetic. It was good to be aware of each other's knees. We have 
that marriage certificate. There were a couple of different pride 
celebrations. There was a PLFAG—Parents, parents, Friends of 
Lesbians, Gays—booth at a Eugene Celebration where they had 
wedding clothes that were just slits down the back that you could 
slip into kind of, because it would fit everybody. We got married in  
that booth. We have probably six or seven wedding certificates on 
our wall. The domestic partnership, the big fat Jewish wedding, our 
Canadian wedding, these pride celebration, the March on 
Washington, all those. So many times married.  
Long:  The marriage in  Canada, is that the one that's legal now in the 
United States?  
Sheklow:  Because if you're legally— The Supreme Court ruling in the U.S. 
just recent— 
Raiskin:  2015.  
Sheklow:  Yeah. If you're legally married anywhere, you're legally married 
here. That's it. Anyone in the U.S. regardless of what kind of couple 
they are, if you get legally married in Canada or Brazil, wherever 
you are, then you're legally married. So, yeah, that one held. But for 
a while, we were having to do the split taxes thing because we 
were— Oregon had passed a bill that recognized marriage but the  
federal government hadn't. When we did our state taxes, we were 
married and when we did our federal taxes, we had a different 
state taxes to send in with our federal taxes because we weren't 
legally married federally. You have to pay a CPA or somebody to 
figure that all out. Now it's really simple. We're just regular 
married. So there you go.  
Raiskin:  Do you have a question?   
Long:  Well, I wanted to go back to other activities of yours in Eugene. My 
understanding is that you were involved in starting the Pride 
Celebration.  
Sheklow:  Yeah, right.  
Long:  Can you talk a little bit about that?  
Sheklow:  I can talk a little bit about it. I have more info I noticed as I was 
going through all this stuff  in my tub. I don't have all those details 
committed to memory, but the little thing that I came across was 
there had been some kind of Pride event in Eugene previously but 
hadn't been anything for a couple years. There weren't enough 
people who wanted to put it on, and there was no money to do it. 
We went to the Eugene City Council Human Rights Commission to 
authorize some funding to put it on. We had that Pride Celebration 
behind Hilyard Community Center. WYMPROV! performed, of 
course. We had Greg Evans came and spoke as an African-
American civil rights advocate saying, "Gay rights are civil rights." 
Making that case which was big at that time because there had been 
a huge rift with the black community being homophobic. That had 
to be overcome. He helped bridge that in Eugene, which I thank 
him for. People sat on blankets and had rainbow clothes on. There 
was maybe, I don't know, a hundred people came or something. It 
was pretty small but very sweet.  
Long:  Do you remember the year when you did the first one? It was 
during one of the Ballot  Measures.   
Sheklow:  The first Measure 9 was in '92 so my guess is it might have been 
during that campaign.  
Long:  Okay.  
Sheklow:  Yeah, I think so. Which reminds me— 
 [singing:] “Who put the Lon in the Lon Maybon may-bon, who put 
the neet in the nee- nee- nee- nee- neet, who put the lie in the Li-li-
Li-ve-ly, who put the Wal in the wal-wal-wal-le-ters, who the hell 
are they? What’s with the OCA? Why are they against lesbians and 
gays?  
That song goes on. Anne Donahue and I  were protesting in 
Springfield when they were getting their anti-gay ballot measure. 
We were standing in front of the post office with our signs. We 
were there for hours. We wrote that song standing there. There's 
now a songbook, which I'm happy to give you, of all the songs that 
were written for the No on 9 campaign.  
Long:  Great.  
Sheklow:  Yeah.  There's a slew of them. Yeah, that first Pride, it was definitely 
political because the campaign going on there— I really felt like 
there was two separate worlds,  like the whole LGBTQ scene was 
subterranean kind of, not really having a public voice in the 
community, like  we weren't entitled to or something? Having that 
Pride broke through that, it was like, "Look, you're going to try and 
make it illegal for us to exist? We're here and we wanted to be here  
in a happy way."  Linda Phelps, Laura Philips, Jill Sager, I can't 
remember who else. WYMPROV! I can't remember who else were 
involved in organizing it, but I definitely have some papers about 
that. I can contribute. That's some good stuff.  
Raiskin:  Before looking into the future, there is other things about these past 
three decades, any more  that you'd like to remind us?  
Sheklow:  Well, I really feel like the core values that I discovered for myself of 
being part of lesbian community hold up still and that being myself 
and connecting with people who I feel are doing the right, living 
life in a good way, doing the right things and making a difference. 
It used to feel like smash the state, like there's a mainstream and 
let's do away with it and be who we are. Now I feel like, "Oh, okay, 
just by being who we are, we created a new mainstream. Now I'm 
this legally married, old dyke. There are lots of people like me.  
Raiskin:  What do you think about aging as a  lesbian in Eugene or just in 
general?  
Sheklow:  Well, I think about getting these pierced  [laughs and wiggles 
underarm].  And this thing  [wiggles wattle under chin]. Would be 
fun with studs in it. I don't know. I think—  
Raiskin:  You just retired  recently.  
Sheklow:  Yeah. I've been retired for a year and a half. The first six months of 
this is where the “be aware of each other's knees” comes in. The 
first six months of my retirement was being home care to Enid,  
who was recovering from knee replacement surgery. Retirement 
really didn't— I've only really been retired for a year. It's really fun. 
We get to do what we want when we want to. We play Mahjong, 
and we go to the pool three times a week. We're nowhere near the 
youngest people there. I feel pretty happy most of the time and 
there’s horrible stuff going on politically all around us and there 
has always been. I mean, it's taken on a different intensity, a 
different style than we've had before, but— I mean, Ronald Reagan 
was president and AIDS happened. I  mean, horrible— we've lived 
through horrible stuff. If the young people can help us save the 
planet, we'll live through more horrible stuff. I feel pretty hopeful 
about it.  
 We had to take a look at our house which we're very privileged to 
own, free and clear. It makes it possible to stay in our home. There's 
a term “aging in place” so we're going to, hopefully, age in place. 
But we don't have kids. Not that you can always count on your 
kids to step up when you need them, but we don't have anyone to 
even hope they'll step up. So that's a little, "What are we going to 
do? Are we going to get this young dyke couple to come live in our 
upstairs and take care of us while we live in the downstairs?" I 
don't know. We're not there yet. But I feel like somehow  
community is going to come through.  
Raiskin:  Do you feel there’s  a lesbian community still?  
Sheklow:  Oh, absolutely. Yeah, absolutely.   
Raiskin:  Is there a discussion about aging in the community?  
Sheklow:  There is. I haven't participated in any of these organized 
discussions. We talk about it, our friends talk about it. Some people 
I know are moving into the Eugene Hotel. It's not assisted living— 
it’s— I don't know what you’d  call that, retirement community?  
Long:  Retirement community.  
Sheklow:  Yeah. Some people are doing that. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know 
how to answer that. You're younger than me. You can come take 
care of us, and you have kids.  
Raiskin:  They'll take care of us all.  
Sheklow:  Yeah, right. Yeah,  right. I know people quite a bit older than me 
who are still living independently and doing okay. I hope that I'll 
keep doing that.  
Raiskin:  So you don't feel that people becoming couples or living separately 
now than when you were younger has dissipated the community 
too much to be there for you as you age?  
Sheklow:  Well, we have friends, several friends who have pickup trucks. 
When we need to move something, we can call on these friends 
who are in couples to borrow the truck. As an example, I think 
there's still community that shows up for each other. We're more 
involved in our other communities. I'm really involved in the 
Jewish community and lots of lesbians are. I can't really separate 
those fully. Yeah, I think that's one of the appeals of organized  
religion, even for an atheist like me, is that kind of guaranteed 
community and someone to bury you and stuff like that. So I don't 
really worry about those things.  
Raiskin:  If you can imagine a younger person watching this soon or even in 
twenty  years, is there something specifically you'd like to say to 
younger—? 
Sheklow:  Or even 200 years?  
Raiskin:  Or even 200 years.  
Sheklow:  Well, I'll see what he wrote— what's his name? Michael at the 
Eugene Weekly  interviewed me and asked a similar question, "What 
would you say to someone my age?" I said, "Well, I don't know. 
What is your age? “Twenty?" Okay, well, I would say, from my 
grandiose station as an elder, be yourself and find your people and 
kind of everybody is your people. You know, make more people 
your  people.  
Long:  Was there anything else that we didn't ask or cover that you'd like 
to mention?  
Sheklow:  Well, I don't think I'm going to be able to come up with that stuff 
for this interview but I have, like I say, piles of stuff and just sitting 
waiting for you. Kept thinking of more groups I was involved with. 
We didn't even talk about Baleboostehs. There's so many projects 
and groups and shows and stuff that I've been involved with, the 
Family Freedom Seder, we didn't talk about it all. Okay, I'll just say  
something about that. During Ballot Measure 9 in 1992, we had a 
big fundraiser at the Eugene Hilton Hotel to raise money for the 
campaign to defeat that terrible ballot measure. It was Passover and 
we decided to have a big Passover Seder. There were 400 people 
there. There were forty  tables of ten. We met together to create a 
Haggadah, a storytelling booklet that we would follow for the 
whole ceremony, that called on our ancestors from Stonewall and 
how people insisting on their right to be free, is our heritage. It was 
awesome. We had horseradish flown in from New York. That was 
authentic and so 400 people, maybe 10  percent, 20 percent  were 
Jewish and most were just community members who wanted to 
support it and be part of it and had never been to a Seder before 
and had never had real horseradish before. There's a moment in the 
ritual where you take your first bite that includes horseradish. 
There was a moment of silence and then, “Whoa!” People were 
freaking. They were like, "Wow." Luckily, the hot  of horseradish 
passes quickly, but you don't know that if you're not familiar with 
it. So there was a moment of panic, but it was a unifying moment. 
The news media covered it, which was part of the struggle all along 
in our campaign, was being marginalized means you don't get 
public  attention for what you do. It was a big deal that all the news 
media showed up to that. And we did win. I just wanted to 
mention that one. There's lots of other stuff.  
Raiskin:  We might have to have  more conversations. 
Sheklow: Yeah, I think more conversations would be fine.   
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Long:  Yeah.  
Sheklow:  I haven't repeated myself?  
Raiskin:  Not at all.  
Sheklow:  Awesome.  
Long:  Thank you so much, Sally. This is great. We really appreciate it.   
Sheklow:  You're welcome. Thank you. I'm so excited this is happening. That's 
great.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  