
Bills:  We can do the easy banter if it's not recording anyway, right? No? 
Fine, okay, nice to know that.  
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Jen Bills on August 2, 2018 taking 
place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio in the 
Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The interviewers 
are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO libraries’  Special 
Collections and University Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin 
of the UO Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
Jen, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the university to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.   
Bills:  I enthusiastically consent.  
Long:  Wonderful. Thank you so much.  
Bills:  You're welcome.  
Long:  Let's just start out with a basic question. Can you please tell us 
where you were born, where you grew up and something about 
your early background?  
Bills:  Sure. I grew up in, well, I was born in Reno, Nevada. My mom is 
French. She immigrated to the States in 1964. My dad was an 
American and they met while she was in Reno. She got an ear 
infection and he was the nice doctor who lived upstairs. So that's 
how they got to know each other. We moved to the Oregon coast 
when I was five years old and that's really where I grew up. I grew 
up in Charleston, Oregon. It's a really small town, about two and a 
half hours South of Eugene. Population  600 or so. I'm the youngest 
of six children total. I've got five half brothers and sisters who are 
significantly older than I am. I grew up essentially an only child 
living out in the country.  
 What was unique about my childhood was for four to six months 
out of the year until I was sixteen, we had traveled back to France. I 
had spent time in Paris, of course, a huge metropolitan city, and 
then go back to a small fishing village on the Oregon coast. What 
was also unique is I was the only Jew in my entire school,  K 
through high school. There weren't any others  that I went to school  
with. I'd have private Hebrew lessons occasionally at my house and 
whatnot with physicians who worked at the hospital with my dad.  
Long:  Can I ask, did you experience any discrimination or problems with 
being the only Jew in your school?  
Bills:  You know, I think back on it and really not much happened. I was 
a pretty savvy kid and so it was back in the days when there 
whistle prayer and they'd have celebrations for holidays and 
everything in the classroom. I'd managed to go to the Christmas 
party, have a great time, and then scamper out and go to the library 
and hang out with my friend who was a Jehovah's Witness. And 
we pretty much figured out that system as young kids. And so that 
was fine.  The sort of discrimination I would say didn't really  occur 
until probably the very end of high school. And that's when a lot of 
kids were getting involved with Young Life and the Oregon 
Citizens Alliance  was becoming very active in Oregon at  that time. 
This was about 1986-‘87 when they started to pick  up some steam.  
That was when it was a little bit more noteworthy that I was 
Jewish. But Quaker dad, Jewish mom, we celebrated everything in 
the sun. I mean, just everything. So, it was an interesting place to 
grow up. I got more guff for being bilingual. I was the only little 
kid who would bring a briefcase to school with me. A “sac de 
classe”  is what they're called, it's basically a briefcase with 
backpack straps. And in Charleston, Oregon, it's  kind of unique. I 
was the kid who kind of stood out because I spoke another 
language.   
 It was a very white, very poor part of the Oregon coast. Working 
poor, working class and then it's close to Coos Bay where you get a 
different demographic. But it was an interesting place to grow up.  
 I was a feral child. I liked to play outside and we lived right on the 
beach and spent a lot of time in the water in the woods. I came out 
when I figured it out when I was fifteen  in high school. About 1985 
I figured out I was lesbian. The term was “gay” because lesbian 
was a really hard word to say for me.  
Raiskin:  Why was that?  
Bills:  It was just, it felt so stodgy, I suppose. You know, it was just, gay is 
just easier. But there weren't at that time any other lesbians that I 
knew of in high school. I was lucky, though. One of my classmates 
and his name is Bernie Smith, and he was fabulous and he was out 
and proud and a drag queen and eventually ended up working at a 
bar in Portland called Ourselves. He was a Dolly Parton 
impersonator. He did this actually in elementary school, up on 
stage, dressed as Dolly Parton  and singing “Nine to Five.” It was 
brilliant. You have to love that man for that. He eventually died of 
complications from AIDS. Not too long ago actually. But a 
remarkable man. He was out and he took all the heat from 
everybody because he was so visible. And I kind of melted back 
into the background. I played sports, did all the honors stuff, 
speech and debate, student government. I was under the radar for a 
little bit.   
Raiskin:  How did you know that you were a lesbian?  
Bills:  Well, it was— family friends came and it took me about five 
minutes to figure out that the family friends were a couple, two 
women. And I just remember sticking to them like glue and I 
wanted to dress like them. They were amazing. I think I was 
probably a little shadow  to them. I was fifteen  and they seemed 
really old. They  were  probably early twenties. But I just remember 
absolutely adoring them. And finally kind of putting it all together 
of that— that made sense to me. And you know, I struggled with it. 
It wasn't like an easy “Aha moment” where you're like, "Oh yeah, 
that's it." And you know, I had a boyfriend ironically turned out to 
be gay. We came out to each other. We went to the prom together, 
he left with his boyfriend. I left with my girlfriend. It all worked 
out well. But yeah, I felt I probably had a mad crush on them as 
what it really was boiled down to. And then when I was seventeen  
for spring break, I went down to San Francisco and stayed with 
them. And I will say that cemented how I felt. So shortly 
thereafter— 
Long:  Did you come out to them when you were down in San Francisco?  
Bills:  No, I did not. I hadn't come out to anybody at this point. It was just 
the fascination, the following, the how was the newspapers? A 
New York newspaper Village Voice. Picking up the Village Voice  
because it was sort of the only queer thing you could find with, 
there's no Internet, there's no cell phones. So you get a copy of the 
Village Voice  that felt edgy. And yeah, no I didn't come out. I just  
remember they took me to a place called Hamburger Mary's in San 
Francisco and here I am, I'm just I'm seventeen  years old and I'm 
with all these lesbians and gay men and I'm like, okay, this is it. 
This is my tribe. These were the people that I belong with. Then I 
came back home. And a friend of mine, she had two moms. Her 
mom had a  girlfriend and I knew this. I wanted to connect with 
them. I knew I needed to find some people at that point. And so I 
told my friend, I said, "Well, I want to connect with your mom 
because you know, I'm gay." And she looked at me and said, "Well, 
I think I am too." That actually turned out to be my girlfriend. 
Worked pretty well.  
Long:  What year was this?  
Bills:  Eighty-seven. Yeah, 1987. And the interesting thing about 
Marshfield High School, which is where I went to school, is that 
from that class, there are probably easily a dozen gay  and lesbian 
people between the last two classes. The ‘87 class and ‘88 class had 
a number of gays and lesbians including Jeff Whitty who won the 
Tony award for Avenue Q. He was one of my classmates. And so 
looking back, we had a very gay class. It was leaving school at 
pretty much all of us came out except for three or four of us that 
came out in high school.  
Raiskin:  It's sad you couldn't connect there in high school.  
Bills:  We hung out though. We were all together. We all did speech and 
debate together. I think half my soccer team were lesbians, they'll  
probably regret that I said that. But yeah, there were a lot of gays 
and lesbians and we spent time together. We just didn't know. 
Bernie was the easy one. My friend John became the easy one. And 
it wasn't easy.  It was coming out to people that I had known. Like I 
said, it was the time of the Oregon Citizens Alliance. Coos Bay is 
very conservative. It's a timber town. But it has a nice underbelly of 
liberalness that people don't know about. But it was trying to 
connect with that liberal side. But my friends were conservative. 
They came from religious households. There's a lot of judgment, a 
lot of anger. And then we evolved to mature adults and 
everybody's wonderful. I think we all worked through our own 
stuff and they work through their stuff and so that's good.  
Raiskin:  What did you think your parents, how your parents would take  it if 
you were to talk to them?  
Bills:  At that time?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Bills:  At that time my parents were divorced, so I actually didn't come 
out to my mom till college and actually my father later on. I was 
devastated. There was no way I was telling my parents. The first 
family member I told was my eldest sister, Virginia. I'm very close 
with her and she was amazing. She was wonderful. I remember I 
was in college, it was my freshman year. I was living in the dorms 
and I wrote her a letter. And I came out to her. I told her that I had 
a girlfriend.   
 And I remember the dorm phone rings and someone picks it up 
and they knock on your door. And it was my sister and her first 
words were, "I love you and I've always known since you were a 
little kid." And so that was good and refreshing. And I've been 
blessed with my sisters. Virginia and Elizabeth are just remarkable 
women who don't bat an eye at any of this. In fact, I think Elizabeth 
has married a lesbian couple, so you know, they're good. I was 
lucky. But— 
Long:  If I could ask: if your parents had friends who were a lesbian 
couple why do you think they would have been concerned about 
you?  
Bills:  Because for me it was more of a sense of loss, risk and you know, 
your parents are supporting you. They have plans for you. I'm the 
only one in my family without an advanced degree. Which is kind 
of unique. All my siblings are very well educated. My parents had 
a certain path that we were to follow, very high expectations and it 
felt like I’d disappoint  them because you know, at that, at that time, 
even somewhat now it's still marginalized to a degree. And I was 
on the margins for that hidden subculture and I didn't want to be, I 
didn't want parents to like throw me to the curb.  And it ended up 
being a good call eventually. I came out to my mom right before I 
started college. It was actually, I was in the dorms and she was 
asking me about birth control if I needed any because she was hip 
and groovy, right? And I said no. And she asked if I was sexually 
active and here's the point where I could have said no, but I said  
yes. And then the following conversation happened. And you 
know, she said, she was mad, angry, hurt. She said, "You betrayed 
me. You've betrayed God. You know, how do you know you're a 
lesbian? Really?" And kicked me out of the house. She was 
absolutely furious. I mean, just hot anger and you know, I 
remember leaving and heading back and my girlfriend's mom and 
her girlfriend were there and meeting me to send me off to, to 
college too. And talked to them about it and they said, "Well, you'll 
be okay. You know, you've got a landing spot, you're gonna be 
okay."  That was really reassuring. And my mom got ahold of  me 
the next day and she'd contacted PFLAG. Parents and Friends of 
Lesbians and Gays. It probably has a different name then, or now. 
But she had talked to somebody and she said, "I love you. Come 
home, let's talk about it." And she became a fierce advocate. I mean 
she, I think she outed me more than anyone has ever outed me. 
And I think sometimes she liked it just to watch what people do, 
that she had a lesbian daughter. And she has been, she was 
absolutely wonderful afterwards. Blips here and there. Certainly 
parents have fears and want  their children to be safe. Those things 
would come up. But for the most part she became wonderful and 
you know, eventually had a son. She was an amazing grandmother, 
so it worked out pretty well. And then for my dad I was  a 
sophomore in college and he came to visit and I wanted to tell him 
and I didn't want to tell him and hemmed and hawed and 
eventually did tell him during that visit.   
 And he just laughed and said, "I always knew you were." And I 
said, "So why didn't you let me know that?" And he said, "I was 
waiting for you to tell me." And I said, "Okay, well, it'd been nice 
that you gave me a hint." And he was great. He was great too.  You 
know, he was older, quite conservative, Republican and not a 
problem. It was always very kind towards my partners and 
girlfriends and never an issue. Ended up pretty lucky at the end of 
this whole game with wonderful parents and family. A lot of 
people aren't so blessed. So I got pretty blessed.  
Raiskin:  So you came to the University  of Oregon?  
Bills:  I did.  
Raiskin:  For college? Why did you choose Oregon and what did you know 
about Eugene when you came here?  
Bills:  For Eugene, a couple of things.  One there was a synagogue here, 
which is where we'd come to attend services. There was an old 
synagogue at 25th and Portland, no longer there. And my mom 
was really good friends with the rabbi's wife, who was a French 
speaking Palestinian Jew. My mom who had spent a lot of time in 
the Middle East and North Africa and French and Jewish and 
spoken, they each spoken number of languages. So there are good 
friends. So we came here a lot to go to a temple and also had some 
good family friends who lived here. We'd come up here and as a 
teenager I'd come up here and screw off all the time. We'd tell my 
parents that we were going to X location and drive to Eugene. In  
fact, on my senior night I was supposed to be in Coos Bay, Oregon 
at a athletic club for the whole senior night and did that for about 
an hour.  And my girlfriend and I hopped in her car and drove to 
Eugene and stayed at her mom's house, who was down  in Coos 
Bay for my graduation, and spent the night there, then drove  back 
early the next morning. Eugene, I loved Eugene. It was fun. We'd 
come up here and go to U  of O for debate tournaments between 
debate tournaments. And so I had applied to a variety of colleges.  
My mother made me apply to U  of O. At that time I thought that 
we are living still under the financial umbrella of my dad. It wasn't 
until recently I learned that we weren't. And so I got into some 
really wonderful schools, but turned out Eugene was the only 
school I could afford to go to. So I ended up here.  
Started off as a Russian major, which lasted all of about a term 
because I took a Women's Studies class and one of the small group 
leaders for women's studies played rugby.  And so I thought, Hmm, 
that sounds interesting. So I played rugby and what I learned is 
you can't study Russian and do that full time and play rugby and 
go to bars and drink  and have a really fun time. I switched my 
major to the premed sport and exercise science because it's just  
easier. I did that until Ballot Measure 5 hit and my department was 
going to be cut. Eventually it was cut. And so I just switched to 
English literature, which really at the end was perfect. It's what I 
should have done at the very start. But I found my way there 
eventually.   
Long:  Can you tell us what the campus was like when you, so you arrived 
fall of 1987?  
Bills:  Yes.  
Long:  You lived in a dorm?  
Bills:  I did. I lived in Burgess. Yeah. Burgess Hall. It's over— so at that 
time I was in one of the ones that is on Agate street, Hamilton 
Complex. I had a roommate and the campus at that time— I was, I 
was still being a good student at the very start of my college 
experience. That ebbed and  flowed throughout my college time. I 
had other interests that would pop in. Campus was—Dorms were 
the dorms, I think in terms of how it felt, it was an all-women’s  
dorm. I wasn't out to my roommate. I had a girlfriend still back 
home in Coos Bay. And it was basically my little nucleus was the 
rugby team and I was the youngest on the team. I was seventeen  
when I started the school. And I had just turned seventeen. And 
they were— that's where I spent a lot of time and they were all 
grad students or you know, nearing the end of their careers here at 
U of O. You didn't see young  women and men holding hands like 
you do now. The place to go if you wanted to meet any gays and 
lesbians was the Gay and Lesbian Alliance, which is in the Erb 
Memorial Student Union or Women's Resource and Referral. There 
wasn't a women's center, there was just Women's R&R, women and 
you know, different programs. But there wasn't one big center.   
 And I still wasn't out into that whole  getting to know everybody. 
What I would do is I'd walked by the Gay and Lesbian Alliance and 
kind of look in and they look scary because there are people with 
Mohawks that were purple and I pretty much dress the same now 
as I did when I was seventeen. Thank God the eighties  are coming 
back, is all I can say, polo shirts are back in. Yay. And I'd walk by, 
I'd look in, they were scary. They were out, I walk away.  
 The same thing happened with a bookstore that I learned about, 
Mother Kali’s  Books. And I remember riding my bike by a few 
times before getting the nerve to go in. The only lesbian book I had 
read at that time was Breaking the Silence. It was the only book I 
could find in our public library was about lesbian nuns. That was 
my understanding really. And then my girlfriend's mom's had the, 
I think Lesbian Sex  by, I forget who wrote it, but so you'd peek at 
those books. But it was like “Oh.”  
 I'd go into Mother Kali’s  and I'd go right back to the record section 
and not look at any of the books or the magazines because those 
were lesbian. Eventually it was Izzie  I think was the name of the 
woman who owned the place. And she had beautiful gray hair and 
really butch. I remember she didn't wear a bra, which I found very 
shocking as a seventeen-year-old. And she was wonderful. Started 
getting me away from the record section back to other things to 
read and to look at. But you know, I'd pick records out by their 
cover and Tret Fure and Meg Christian and Cris Williamson and all 
those—Holly Near— all of those things.   
 But I ended up getting involved with the Gay and Lesbian Alliance 
near the end of my freshman year just talking with folks and 
getting to know them and being more active. And then the other 
place that we'd go was a bar called, there's two bars at the time in 
Eugene. One called the Riviera room, the Riv, and the other one 
called Club Arena. It was Perry's I think is what it was called, 
Perry's.  And the Riv was sort of an old school dive bar. I only went 
in there once and it was beer bottles stocked up on a table with, 
now mind you, I'm young, so really butch looking women that I 
found scary and everybody was smoking because you could smoke 
inside those days. And then I watched two women  get into a fight 
with pool cues and I thought, no, I don't want to be here. I ended 
up at Perry's at the time, and the rugby team would sneak us in 
because we were all minors. Again, I was seventeen. I had a fake ID 
which was a terrible fake ID, but I had a fake ID and they'd let me 
in on it and we'd have fun and dance all night and then go back.  
Long: Where was it?  
Bills:  Perry's was right by the Greyhound bus station on Pearl Street, so 
probably Broadway and Pearl Street. Then the Riviera was 
Broadway and Willamette Street. By what is now the McDonald 
theater and across the street from the Downtown Athletic Club. It's 
Actors Cabaret now, I believe. And those were sort of the hubs 
where you'd go. There weren't T dances until much later when 
there'd be women's dances.   
 For me, Eugene ended up being a place where there are a lot and 
you evoked a lot of lesbians. I'll say the Women's Studies classes, 
my English classes not so much in the sports and exercise sciences 
at that time, which I thought was interesting, looking back. But I 
got involved with the Gay and Lesbian Alliance my sophomore 
year. I ended up being the director of it. And it was GALA  and the 
LGBTQ parts didn't come till I left much longer, much long time 
after.  
Long:  What did that involve, being the head of that?  
Bills:  There was a Gay and Lesbian film festival. A queer film festival 
was one piece that we'd do. Bringing things like Vito Russo's 
movies in. Movies that you just couldn't get access to. I mean, there 
weren't things that you could watch on television that represented 
gay and lesbian culture very much. And if there were, there'd be 
actual viewing parties where everybody would show up and watch 
somebody kiss on TV or talk about being gay or lesbian on TV. We 
bring the film festival in. It entailed keeping the office open so 
people could have a safe space  to just come to and sit down. We 
had magazines and books that you could borrow and look at that 
were a part of queer culture. There weren't things like Curve  
Magazine or Out Magazine.  
 We're talking, there was a local paper here called the Lavender 
Network. That was the info sharing device at the time and you 
know, you get your hands on that and that was pretty spectacular. 
You could figure out what's going on in town and there wasn't a  
gay pride event here in Eugene. Everybody was still going down to 
San Francisco for that. So I did that. I had a, a co-director then 
eventually it was just the director of it and that was fantastic. And 
then I, that sort of launched me into my student government stuff 
that I did here at U  of O. 
Long:  Can I ask first about your memories of the Measure 8 Campaign? 
Because that would have been 1987, 88 when you were a freshman.  
Bills:  Yeah, that was the first time I ever got to vote. Eventually I turned 
eighteen  just in the nick of time. Everybody I voted  for did not win. 
I think  I voted for Jesse Jackson. The Oregon Citizens Alliance was 
really spearheading a lot of this at the time and they had been 
pretty active in Coos Bay, Oregon, where I grew up. They were 
trying to ban Playboy  from the public library, which of course just 
made it so everybody knew there was Playboy  at the public library 
and it's Coos Bay, Oregon for God's sake. But I remember really 
wanting to fight them on the free speech basis and access to this. 
And you know, it was, you shouldn't ban things just because 
there's, what's pornography? I'll know when I see it. The OCA was 
pretty hideous. When the Ballot Measure 8 started I was pretty 
young, pretty new. A couple things happened. One, it was pretty 
evident that gays and lesbians were being targeted. I remember 
having a No on 8 sticker on my truck and someone drove by and 
very loudly yelled "Faggot!" They got it wrong, but those was still 
the intent I think. I understood that. And it was scary. It was a scary  
time. You know, we had 8-9-13-9 were the ballot measure 
sequences.  
 We were all amazed that it passed, when  Ballot Measure 8 passed. I 
was like, "Oh, wow, okay." Not knowing that there had been a fight 
earlier in the City of Eugene, I forget in the ‘70s, where there was 
another ballot measure and some stuff that was happening. So 
people that have been here had already experienced that. But for 
me it was brand new. And again, it wasn't out to everybody in the 
world. You know, I wasn't coming out left and right. I was pretty  
much, I had my nucleus of people that I spent time with and other 
people. You still didn't hold hands in public, you still didn't do 
public displays of affection.  Clearly, now I do. But then I wouldn't 
have, I was so small. But it was— I think for those who had lived 
through different parts, it was coming back and feeling worse for 
them. For me it was like, "Oh my God. What now?" It was a 
interesting time. We didn't know where it would lead.  
Raiskin:  Talk about getting involved in student government here.  
Bills:  Sure. I started off with the Gay and Lesbian Alliance and then ran 
for what was called the Incidental Fee Committee, which was the 
body that approved all the budgets for everybody. It's a little 
different now, but that's what worked then. You had student union 
groups, student groups, and then you have the incidental fee 
committee that approves their budget. And then you have the 
executive branch, which was the student body president and the 
vice president and that crew that then would sign off or veto  
whatever the IFC put forward to them. In ‘88 I started dating a 
woman who at the time was the student body president and I was 
the director of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance. She was Student Body 
President. That kind of made me a little bit more interested. I was 
walking in those circles, getting to know what was going on.  And 
so she encouraged me and I ended up being on the Incidental Fee 
Committee and eventually being the chair of that body for a period 
of time. I was also on  the board of directors for the US Student 
Association, USSA. And at that time we were working of course, on 
access to higher ed for funding, but also on gay and lesbian issues, 
on immigrant rights issues, on issues of racism. Not so much 
sexism. Which is interesting looking back on all that, but you know, 
it was a very activist body. You members from the young 
communist league there. It was definitely left of center as a 
lobbying body to Congress.  
 So I did that and ended up being the head of the Gay and Lesbian 
Caucus for the US Student Association. It's a huge body that 
represented schools from all over the United States. And then I 
decided to run for student body president and I won. I ran against 
a very right wing, right of center opponent and then a more 
moderate group. It was good. It worked out. And being student 
body president at that time of course was sort of the start of Ballot 
Measure 5, and what was going on with funding for higher ed.  
 Apartheid was still on the table. Gays in the military and  the 
university's support of allowing recruitment on campus was key.  
And at the time, Miles Brand was the university president and at 
one point students went into his office and took over his office 
regarding allowing the military to recruit. Because if it's banned for 
gay and lesbian service members. And Dr. Brand and I got together 
and decided that we would go do joint lobbying to Congress on 
behalf of removing the ban for gays and lesbians in the military. 
Tremendous respect for that man on that. And my mom ended up 
having a heart attack, so I stayed here, but he still went and did 
that.  
Raiskin:  Did you run for ASUO president as an out lesbian?  
Bills:  Oh yeah. Yeah. I was an out lesbian when I ran. Out lesbian for IFC 
as well. And the Incidental Fee Committee.  
Raiskin:  And did you get reaction to that? Positive or negative?  
Bills:  No. You know, I don't really recall exactly the reaction that I got to 
it. I got endorsed by the sororities, which was pretty spectacular. 
And I remember going in and the sororities were pretty foreign to 
me, but I remember getting to go and visit all the sororities and sort 
of talk about my platform and they endorsed me. The Panhellenic, 
which was pretty, it was fantastic.  Inter-Fraternity did not. They 
went for the other candidate who is a Beta. So that made sense. I 
understood that. But no. Not so much. My experience in terms of 
the harassment I never got any hate mail. I never got anything like 
that. Only had really one incident happened to me at U  of O. My 
girlfriend and I were sitting in the car outside of the Erb Memorial  
Union. And we were kissing goodbye right inside the car. And it 
was the beer garden. It was like a Friday or something. And some 
guys walked out and they saw us kissing and then they stopped 
and I heard  them yell, "It's two women, its two women."  
 Then they banged on the hood of the car. And I was in the 
passenger seat, my girlfriend was in the driver's seat and it was 
scary. They leave. And then moments later they pulled their car in 
behind ours and they got out and they're banging on our hood and 
calling us dykes and I wanted to get out of the car and my 
girlfriend said, "Do not get out of the car." And I really wanted to 
get out of the car. I didn't like being trapped in the car. If they're 
going to bring the fight to me, they will meet the fight. Probably is 
why I do what I do now. But yeah, it was terrifying and I got their 
license plate and immediately reported it to the Campus Public 
Safety and there was on site— Eugene police Department was also 
on site. I had the plate and they really sort of let it go. They didn't 
do anything about it. And looking back, was there a crime? No, 
there really wasn't a crime. But it was sure scary in the fact that we 
didn't get treated really well. And there was a woman who was a 
lesbian and worked for public safety and got ahold of me and said, 
"Look, we know where they're at. They're at this fraternity house 
on this location. But we can't do anything about it." And just feeling 
so powerless at that time and just hating that fear and 
powerlessness trapped in your car. Three big guys, they're blocking 
us in. None of this was okay.   
 And I remember that feeling. Now as a police officer, I remember 
that feeling when I talk to people who are victims of bias crime. 
Because sometimes there's nothing that we can do ask the police, 
but maybe just listening because it's, I remember being there. I 
remember being essentially what I would say gay bashed. They 
didn't put hands on me, but I was certainly afraid and you know, 
they took something significant away in that moment.  
Long:  How did you get out of that situation?  
Bills:  They left. They got bored and left. I think had I gotten out of the car 
had been worse. It was a good call to stay in the car. Just wasn't the 
call I wanted to make at the time.  
Raiskin:  How did you get from a degree in English literature to the police 
department?  
Bills:  And don't forget the minor in Women's Studies. That's a key part to 
allow me to get my job. I graduated and worked for U  of O for a bit 
in human resources and then sold advertising for the Lavender 
Network, which then had a different name. And I sold advertising in 
Eastern Oregon. That was my territory. For a gay and lesbian 
magazine in Eastern Oregon, it wasn't really lucrative in terms of a 
target area. There are lesbian and gay dude ranches in Eastern 
Oregon, just so you know. Not many though. I did that and I was 
basically an underemployed college grad is what happened. I had 
worked with Officer Ken Saxon who was a Eugene police officer 
and worked in the East University part here in Eugene on  
Thirteenth  Street. There wasn't a substation then. He just basically 
drove around and dealt with community-oriented problems. I also 
knew a female Eugene police officer because she played basketball 
with a bunch of friends of mine. She had been a D1 basketball 
player in Chicago, moved out here for her, for who knows what 
reason became a police officer.  
 They were recruiting. And by this time I was working as a barista 
at a place called Coffee Corner at Fifth Street Market. All the police 
officers would come there to get coffee and so I’d chat them up a 
bit. And I applied. My background was lefty liberal student 
activist, degree in English literature, no military background 
whatsoever.  I wore Doc Martins with yellow stitching. You know, 
shorts. I had a flat top at various points, would go to the Michigan 
Women's Music Festival. I don't know why they picked me, but I 
got hired on the first try.  
 So, I started my career with Eugene police in 1994. There were 
other out lesbians in the police department in 1994. There was  a— I 
think she was a lieutenant or maybe a captain at the time, whose 
girlfriend, partner, now wife was also an agent who then became  a 
sergeant. There were a lot of out women at the Eugene police 
department. Which was really nice. I think I was the most out of all 
of them just because of my activist stuff that I'd  done in Eugene. 
There’d been a front page, Register Guard, big sectio n story about 
my partner—(language is always so blurred, partner , because you 
couldn't get married)—and I were having a child and the Register  
Guard  did a big splash in the paper about this baby and two moms.  
So, I was out and no going back in that closet. And people were 
kind of okay. The rule for new recruits is heads down, mouths shut 
and that's standard for everybody. It wasn't unique to me. But I 
remember being pulled aside by a colleague as a new officer. And 
so I had a brand new baby son. He was maybe  six months old at 
this time. And she said, "You need to be more quiet. You're being 
too loud and pushy about being a lesbian." And I said, "What am I 
doing?" And she said, "Well, you keep talking about your son." 
"Okay, well, thanks for the feedback."  
 Suffice to say she's not in law enforcemen t anymore and I am. Her 
world was probably not as good as it should have been either. But 
she was upset that I was talking about my kid. I'm a new mom. I'll 
show you photos till I'm blue in the face. That was pretty 
ridiculous. But, you know, I was lucky. Eugene police had a lot of 
out, strong, amazing, capable trailblazers and I just got to add my 
footprints to theirs.  
Raiskin:  It's interesting because talking to people, lesbians who were here in 
the seventies, they talk about police rates on the Riv room. And was 
there an element in that your department held over from that time 
of police who are not sympathetic?  
Bills:   Oh, absolutely. Yeah. There were troglodytes for sure. They were 
folks that actually would not get hired now as police officers, which 
is pretty amazing when you look back. It was the post-Vietnam  
war, no college education, just got out of the military ,narrow  
worldview kind of folks. They hired them because they were big 
and thick. They couldn't probably put a report together very well. 
And yeah, they were there. And I remember looking at them and 
thinking, "You're a jerk." But I don't know what it was, I think  for 
me it was two women in particular I thought were the most 
homophobic out of the crew that I had to deal with. The guys were 
just guys, I mean I think being a woman was just as bad as being a 
lesbian, being female. And sometimes in law enforcement it's  hard 
to differentiate what the issue is—is it because I'm a lesbian or 
because I'm a woman. And I'd say most of the time it's because I'm 
a woman. They didn't like that because I'm five-two on a tall day. 
We pretty scrappy and can hold my own, but I'm still only five-two 
and female. And I think that ended up itself was a barrier.  
 We weren't doing raids in ‘94 anymore. We weren't doing bar 
checks anymore and that'd be just bar checks for age. And on that I 
did get kicked out of Perry's eventually when they  figured out I 
was a minor. So I just want so you know, that did happen. It was 
very sad day. But Eugene Police at that time was evolving. I started 
in ‘94. My son was born in ‘95 and there wasn't leave for parents of 
same sex couples. So, the Eugene police union actually fought for 
me to get time off. And at the time we were working six days on, 
three days off.  I was on graveyard. My union fought to give me 
compassionate leave, which is what you get when someone dies. 
And they fought and I got it. I got  three days off. Now, it doesn't 
sound like much, but again, it's 1995 and so I got to have six days 
off with a new son as opposed to three days off. And you know, it's  
laughable now because now I could take as much time as I have in 
the bank off. But that  was pretty good for then. You know, I was 
happy with that and they fought for it and there was not a blinking 
of the eye that it was bad.  
 The Eugene police union was also the same, the first union in the 
city to offer benefits, insurance benefits and benefits for same sex 
couples. And it was the police department wasn't Rec, wasn’t the 
city manager's office, wasn't the fire department, it was the cops. I 
think that pendulum was swinging at that time. But yeah, there's 
still homophobia, there are still troglodytes, there were still terrible 
people who every time you'd have these ballot measures come up, 
you'd get to see where the writing was on the wall with where 
people stood. Because even though public employees, we can't 
have our opinions shown, opinions were talked about.  Then when 
the marriage equality stuff came back up, again, you got to see 
some of the older generation and their thoughts on the matter. 
Then with Trump you know, it's amazing how smart, intelligent, 
capable people can be so blinded by a buffoon.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about your work on the SWAT team?  
Bills:   Sure. Yeah, so I was the SWAT team commander for a total of eight 
years. I had been a Lieutenant, I promoted to Lieutenant in 2006 
and I had been a crisis negotiator  and then the supervisor of the 
crisis negotiation team for ten years. I worked really closely with 
SWAT as a negotiator. The guy who was in charge of the team was 
going to be deploying militarily to Afghanistan or Iraq. They  
needed someone to take over  the team in 2008 and I got asked if I 
would do it. Now, what's unique about that is that there'd only 
been one female ever before on the SWAT team and she ended up 
resigning from law enforcement, so she didn't last very long, but 
she was very capable, very talented woman. And there were no 
female SWAT commanders that I knew of anywhere in the United 
States. SWAT is a Special Weapons and Tactics. It is the body, it's 
the group of people that police officers call when they need help. So 
you call the police, police call SWAT. And so it's high risk. It's 
highlight ability. It's very dangerous, very intense training, very 
physical training. And again, I'm five two on a tall day and I'm 
female. And I was asked if I would do it and I said yes. I thought, 
"Oh my God." I approached it with as much humility as I possibly 
could because I knew that I had never been a SWAT cop and there 
had never been a commander who wasn't a SWAT cop or had 
military experience to lead that team. So, went in the first day, and I 
said, "These are the things that you can expect of me. Honor, 
courage, respect, integrity and humility. These are my core values. I 
will treat you this way. You treat me this way. I'm new, I'm going 
to be in your pockets learning as much as I possibly can and I'm 
going to  ask a lot of questions. And I know that I don't know 
everything, so you know, you've got to teach."  I think that 
approach worked really well coming in. And I also cared very 
deeply for them. I think you can't work and put people into 
dangerous situations and not care about them. I asked them to put 
their lives at risk to do things for me. You have to really value who  
they are. The challenges were, of course, they don't make gear as 
small as I am, but because of the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, 
unfortunately they  start, they do have it now. I got geared up little 
vests, little everything. On the obstacle course, which is 
mandatory— everybody else can jump up to grab the monkey bar 
to go across it. I can't, I'd have to shimmy up the pole, which  
expends a lot of energy and taps you out.  The guys were great. 
They actually stacked sandbags for me, so I wouldn't have to 
shimmy up the pole. You know, things like that. They made some 
sweet little accommodations. I would walk into the locker room 
where we all change just because my space and their space and 
we're going to get used to each other pretty quickly. And that was 
good. It was an amazing experience. I am the longest SWAT 
commander of that team ever in the history of our department. I hit 
that milestone at six years and then I've been asked to come back 
two more times for coverage for one year stints. And I love it. On 
call 24/7. I've missed a lot of holidays  and a lot of events.  
 The training's intense. I did SWAT basic as a forty-one year old 
woman with a bunch of twenty  year olds and we did a lot of 
pushups. Unfortunately, we did pushups on my account once. We 
were at  the range and you had to shoot— there's targets at one, 
two, three, and four. And so they would yell “fourteen.” So you'd 
shoot one,  four. Or they'd yell “twenty-four.” They'd shoot two and 
four and then they yell “five.” So I shot one and four and I got 
yelled at and the range instructor said, "Who shot?" I'm like, "I 
shot." He says, "Well, why did you shoot?" I said, "You said five."  
So I shot one in four. He goes, "Only a Lieutenant would think that 
way." And then I learned the benefits of four count pushups. So as 
did everybody else, because you do it as a team to improve  morale 
and suffer equally. That was great. I miss it. I miss that level of 
work. I don't miss the pager.  
Raiskin:  Were you a negotiator on those when you went over the SWAT 
call?  
Bills:  No, I was the team leader. So my role was, I'm the commander, so I 
oversee the entire operation. With SWAT, I would the Sergeant for 
negotiations and then two to three SWAT sergeants and then all the 
SWAT negotiators under them. I oversee and direct the operations, 
direct the tactics. Negotiators feed me info. I make decisions on 
whether to push, whether to hold, whether to, you know, where we 
put the sniper positions to deploy people, what assets do we have, 
what more assets do we need? I've sent my folks off to chase 
someone in an active shooter situation that we've killed.  My very 
first SWAT experience, very first SWAT call out, we actually shot a 
man. I learned quickly he had killed somebody and we found him 
and ended up shooting him. Because he came out with knives and 
it was a rewarding but also very stressful time. I also oversaw the 
weapons of mass destruction team. Dignitary protection. Did 
dignitary protection detail for a former governor, Sarah Palin. Very 
interesting experience. She was actually very nice. Very, very nice. 
Nice family. Did canine traffic enforcement bomb team. I oversaw 
all the high risk specialty teams. And as part of that I lost an officer.  
I lost a negotiator  and a traffic team  member who was  killed line of 
duty, which was probably the hardest thing I've had to do as a 
commander for a team.  
Long:  Can you describe a little bit more the kinds of incidents that you 
would have to be called to?  
Bills:  Yeah, so SWAT is called to hostage and barricaded subject calls and 
it's an armed barricaded subject. Someone who's been inside their 
house probably cranking off rounds. Active shooter situations, area 
searches for active shooters, high risk incidents and warrant 
services. So if you've got someone who is let's say dealing drugs 
and they're known to be armed, we send in the SWAT team. The 
tactics have evolved greatly from when I started to now. When I 
started we used to kick down doors for every reason and do rapid 
entries. And now that's the last thing we do. So it's changed a lot. In 
terms of safety and practice. Couple incidents that I'll bring is we 
had a guy in a van threatening to blow up the post office. He was 
actually going to drive into it till he got there and realized there are 
stairs in there.  It was at Fifth to Sixth and Willamette Street here in 
Eugene at the post office. There's a big hotel called the Hilton really 
close by. And at the end of Willamette Street there is the North-
South railroad. And because of the size of the van and the potential 
blast radius, I shut down the North-South railroad lines for the 
West Coast for about seven hours. One of my favorite moments 
ever. But as part of that, I put a sniper, precision marksman in the 
Hilton looking into the vehicle and I said, if he starts the car, you  
kill him. Because if he had a bomb in the car, we couldn't let him 
drive off. We had evacuated the area, of course, asking officers to 
physically put themselves in harm's way, to pull civilians out of 
that area. We did that and then I had to tell a Sergeant: If the shot 
misses and he continues to drive, your job and your car is to stop 
him. So, you think about those things where you're asking your 
people to do— We don't often ask snipers or tell snipers to do 
things. We let officers make their own use of force decisions. But in 
that instance, it was my job to say, Your direction is he doesn't 
leave. He starts the car and moves. You need to take a shot to stop 
him. Those are the sorts of things we did. Sat on houses, we  put gas 
into houses to get people to come out. The main goal is always to 
negotiate and to get people to come out willingly. Most of the time, 
actually probably 80  percent  of the time that's what happens is they 
just come out on their own through negotiations.  
Raiskin:  How did being a police officer affect your being a mother?  
Bills:  Looking back on that, hindsight's wonderful. I love it. I was a new 
cop, I was a classic new police officer. I wrote tickets for everything 
under the sun. I loved my job. I became a negotiator two years after 
getting hired. So in ’96; did that for a long time, loved it. I loved 
working and going to call outs and I worked shift work. I'd worked 
nights so I could sleep during the day, then being be with my son 
on the afternoon see them in the morning, see them, put them to 
bed. And so that worked well as an infant and then would try to 
make my shift work so I wouldn't miss time. But we worked  
rotating days for really long time, so you have to plan your 
schedule out. Then we started working a 4/10, so I knew what days 
I'd have off. I worked a lot of nights and a lot of a lot of weird hours 
to try to accommodate family life, but I was all about being a cop. It 
makes you more hypervigilant. So go to the public pool here, 
Amazon Pool, and you see someone's sitting, a man normally 
sitting outside the fence watching little kids swimming. I walked 
up to him and said, "Does your parole officer know where you're 
at?" And the guy bolted away. So I think you become aware of 
those things.  It's that hypervigilance, I think we're more, you know, 
there's always a safe word you have with your family about if you 
see someone you've arrested or there's a dangerous situation, you 
give them a warning to have them leave. I do that now. But my 
son's now a  Seattle police officer, so maybe I didn't do too poorly.  
Long:  Yeah. Can you tell us about the process to get your son?  
Bills:  Yeah. When my partner and I decided to have a child there was a 
local doctor who did this work. We were sort of that first batch, that 
first Gayby boom batch that came out. And tons since, but there's 
sort of a, there was a little pod and then that second little pod and 
we're part of that second little wave of babies. Went there, there 
was what I call the Costco option. And then the Neiman Marcus 
option. The Costco option was you got to basic information about 
the donor. We opted for unknown donor just because of the risks. 
At the time Oregon did allow same sex adoption. As a second 
parent then non-birthing parent I could adopt the baby. We went  
for the Costco option because it was cheaper. You get basic info, 
allergies, genetics, looks.  Then the  Neiman Marcus, which is where 
you get a photo, you figure out, know their favorite color, their 
favorite kind of cookie. All those sorts of things. We didn't do that. 
We were poor. Cop and brand new public service worker. So we 
went to Costco. Put on my Amex. It was about 499 a pop. Took 
three tries.  
Long:  Sorry? Could you— 
Bills:  It was about 400 bucks, $500 a try. And it only took us three tries.  
Long:  For the vial of semen.  
Bills:  For the vial of semen. Right. I tried to get the doctor to let me do it  
and he wouldn't, but once he let me actually push the little stopper, 
which is fun. It was expensive then. I understand now from friends 
that's way more than that, but you know, we put in genetics for my 
match. My ex, his other mom, his bio mom is red hair, blue eyes, 
and I'm of course black, gray hair, but black hair and brown eyes. 
And so we put in for Eastern European Jew. Black and brown, and 
ended up with a sort of shade of red, blue eyed six foot boy. So it 
changed. It was not what we expected. The funny thing though is 
he actually kind of looks like me and he acts like me, so it's okay. 
But it was hard. I had no idea what it'd be like to be a parent. And 
we never struggled about adding men to his life because there's 
good men around that were friends and didn't—and there are a lot 
of single moms who raise fabulous men. So that was never really a  
consideration. We really wanted sort of a sensitive new age guy.  So 
we bought him U  of O cheerleader Barbie so he could have a Barbie 
doll. He promptly ran  over her with his truck and would scoop her 
up and dump her out. And we'd take him to women's basketball 
games and he'd sit there slack-jawed watching cheerleaders. So he 
ended up just fine. Much to our attempts to make this sort of new 
age guy. We've got  a sensitive, smart, capable man who— very 
heterosexual, and jokes that he knows what women want because 
he of course was raised by moms.  
Raiskin:  What kind of support did you have from the lesbian community in 
raising him?  
Bills:  It definitely takes a tribe. It takes a family, big, extended family. We 
had tremendous support from dear friends and it was, it was 
wonderful. We had neighbors that were a couple that helped us out 
and you're a new parent, you're frazzled, doesn't matter your 
sexual orientation or anything. You're just going to be crispy and 
tired. And so we had friends that would help us out and give us 
time to go have a date occasionally. We didn't have a lot of gay and 
lesbian friends with kids at the time. They were all great aunts 
people, but  I think that was the advantage is that they have more 
time. Our son was raised around really amazing, talented women. 
Who will joke, you know, one of them went to his football game 
when he was in high school and someone was questioning her 
about who she was and she just looked at him and said, "I'm part of  
Greg's tribe." And you know, so he's got a lot of folks that adore 
him, certainly.  
Raiskin:  Did you participate in any of the lesbian parenting groups?  
Bills:  No. I think, no, we never did. We took them  to Michigan to the 
Michigan Women's Music Festival until we couldn't anymore. 
Which was nice, you know.  
Long:  How old was he when he had to stop?  
Bills:  That was the magic age. It think he was four or five or I think 
maybe three or four. It was when  we had to stop. We'd been 
gone— I think I went for a total of ten summers to the festival 
working there. And his other mom I think did eight or nine. But 
you know, Greg hit that magic age. So when Karen, his mom, was 
pregnant we were at the festival and of course then you have a 
newborn baby at the festival and childcare and he was a big, happy 
baby. So that went well. But it was interesting having a boy child 
there at Michigan. It was remarkable that someone so tiny could be 
a trigger for some people. You know, I'll respect their journey, but 
my seven-month old should not be a trigger for anybody. It's just a 
big chubby baby. But it was good. I think it was a, it was a 
formative experience for him. He got to see a whole variety of 
women. He had a childcare provider who was deaf, so he got his 
name and sign. So he had a good growing up.  
Raiskin:  How involved were you in the schools and how did that, how did 
that feel being out as a parent in the schools?   
Bills:  Again, it's Eugene, so I think there's lesbians you  could throw a 
rock and hit one. You shouldn't do that, but you could. They are 
everywhere and we had them in the French immersion program. 
And we were the only, at that time, I'm trying to think if he had, if 
there's any other gays or lesbians. In his class, we were the only gay 
and lesbian couple. We were active. My first language is French, so 
of course it was fun. My mom volunteered at his elementary 
school. I volunteered all throughout both elementary and then into 
middle school. When he went to Roosevelt Middle School. I didn't 
volunteer in high school because he asked me not to. He said, "Will 
you please not do this anymore?" So I said, "Okay." But we were 
active and we didn't have any problems. And I once asked my son, 
"Well how did he deal with having two moms?" And he said, well, 
if anybody ever said anything to him one, those weren't the people 
that he was going to be friends with. And two, he was always a big 
kid. And he had big kid friends. He had friends that were huge and 
they would just resolve their problems the way they needed to be 
resolved. So whatever grief he got, he  managed pretty well. He's 
never been shy about introducing us, which is nice.  
Long:  Has he ever been curious about his sperm donor?  
Bills:  We always told him the story from an early age about how he came 
about. So, no. I mean certainly these days, I'm sure if you wanted to 
we could give him the number. He could pop it into some database 
and someone's going to say, "Hey, that's my number." He's never 
asked. We just told him the story that there's two women that  
really, really wanted a baby and you know, he's made with love. 
And that there's two people that love them very much and that 
then we would explain the mechanics of it and to which you'd see 
that face sort of zone out. "I don't want to hear any more details. 
Thank you for sharing." And he'd go on his way.  
Long:  You're relatively young still, but we're wondering about how, what 
you think about aging as a lesbian.  
Bills:  Oh, I think we should have lesbian nursing homes or retirement 
communities, I've decided. It's interesting as I hit closer to fifty, 
which is not so far off to, to think about retiring because I'm also 
eligible to retire shortly, as well, from law enforcement. I think that 
one, I'm hopeful because the younger folks, straight, gay, lesbian, 
bi, trans seem to be more with it than I think we were. And they're 
more open. I think about the police officers that we have and I 
think about the gender bias and yes, there's still gender bias and 
there's still issues with LGBTQ. We're always working and pushing 
that rock up a hill, but it's not rolling over us as much. It's just an 
upward push. I talked to these young folks that are out and it's not 
even a subject matter. There's not like this queer identity so much.  
With the people that I work with—with college students it could be 
different—but with the folks that I work with and they're in their 
twenties, they don't care. They don't care who you love. Their 
spectrum is so fluid. Man today, woman today, don't care to my 
heart wants to be with, I'm not going to  spend a lot of time putting 
labels on it.  It's really refreshing. It also makes me sad a little bit  
because of the loss of  that butch identity. The butch-fem thing that I 
kind of grew up with. I identify as butch. I'm comfortable with that. 
I don't need to be on some gender fluid spectrum. I know  where 
I'm at. I honor and love all those who choose their different path, 
go for it. But I'm kind  of sad about where did all the old butches 
go? And so as I get older, I'm kind of looking forward to maybe 
creating that same tribe that we've always been in  our pod of 
people. Now how do we age together? How do we get to stick 
together and you know, be the rowdies in the wheelchairs, in the 
walkers and the nursing home and have the retirement community 
and my golf cart. I kind of want that. So, somewhere warm. I'm just 
going with that. I'm okay with somewhere warmer.  
Raiskin:  What haven't we asked you about your life that you should tell us?  
Bills:  I think the piece for me, coming out in rural Oregon— I think I was 
lucky in that I found a niche and a support system as quickly as I 
did. And I can't imagine what it's like for young LGBTQ kids now 
who are coming out in rural communities and struggling with their 
identity without having a support system. I worry that the Internet 
and all of those media forms don't provide the necessary 
connection for people to develop healthy relationships with the 
world around them. And so for me, I'm really grateful for my 
girlfriend's mom and her partner early on. I think that without 
them, probably would've struggled a lot more because they were so 
safe and they provided a role model for what it was like to be a 
same sex couple. And I'm lucky in that way. And so there's  
certainly gratitude for that.  And then trying to— now there's all 
these terms about living your authentic life and I love it. It's great. I 
feel that I've, I've done that. Every once in a while it's still a 
struggle. Every once in a while it's that question about should I be 
out? Should I hold my wife's hand? I'm married now and been 
married for thirteen  years. And  every once in a while it's like there's 
still that little inkling of, is it safe? Is it okay? What will happen if I 
do this?  I hate that part. That part pisses me off still. It's like not as 
bad as being trapped in the car, but you're still trapped a little bit 
and I don't like that. I'm a police officer. I don't do well with being 
put back into the corner. I don't want to be there, but you know, 
you still have to be thoughtful about it. Mindful I guess is probably 
a term. But yeah, no regrets. It's never been a thing where I looked 
back and thought, "Damn, I shouldn't have come out." I can't 
imagine being in a closet. Don't want to ever be there.  
Raiskin:  What is  something that you might want to say to young people as 
someone who's a little bit older and lived the life?  
Bills:  Yeah. One, find your passion. Whatever that passion is. Be open to 
new things. Two, I know there's that whole, it gets better media 
piece, but it really does get better. Life is rich and good and there 
are people out there who love and support you. I've certainly, as a 
police officer, been to suicides of young people who committed 
suicide because they're gay and lesbian and didn't have family 
support. And that's heartbreaking. But there is family, it's just not 
the family you're born into. And for me, I love the family that I've  
chosen. I love my biological family but I don't get to choose them. 
But I got to choose this amazing rich family and you know, you just 
need to know that they're out there for you. And you know, get 
your nose out of your phone.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Bills:  Yeah, thank you.  
Long:  Thanks.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  