yan:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Long:  Okay, we're going.  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene 
Lesbian Oral History Project. The recordings will be made available 
through the University of Oregon Special Collections and 
University Archives. This is an oral history interview with Barb 
Ryan on Monday, July 9, 2018, taking place in the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ recording studio in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Associate Professor Judith Raiskin of the 
UO Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.  Barb, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project, and 
that you give your permission for the university to preserve and 
make available your recorded and transcribed interview.   
Ryan:  Yes, I agree and I give my permission. I'm excited.  
Long:  Thank you, thank you. First up, a basic question is: Can you please 
tell us where you were born, where you grew up, and something 
about your early background?  
Ryan:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I was born in upstate New York, in 
Schenectady, New York, 1953, and I lived there until I was twenty-
one. And what was the other part of the question?  
Long:  Oh, just something about your early background.  
Ryan:  Right, okay. I was born into an Irish and Italian Catholic family, 
and I was very much a tomboy, and there were early signs that I 
was a bit rebellious, also.  
Long:  And how was that demonstrated?  
Ryan:  That I was the one who would climb the tree the highest, especially 
if my dad was chasing me because my sister blamed me for 
something. I was the one that they'd go, "Yeah, go catch her," 
because I was the fastest runner and the highest tree climber, so I'd 
be the one that would be chased.  
Raiskin:  What brought you to Oregon, and when did you come?  
Ryan:  I got here in 1980 and I first traveled to Oregon in '72 and '74, but I 
didn't make it to Eugene at that time, just southern Oregon. And at 
that time I was hitchhiking around the country, looking for a place 
to live and just feeling things out, and I loved Oregon. And when I  
went back east, I then lived in Reading, Pennsylvania, off and on 
for about six years with some time in Massachusetts, also.  
 And when I was in Pennsylvania, there was an independent 
bookstore run by a woman who was a lesbian, but nobody would 
ever say it out loud. It was a very small community, very— 
actually, a large city, but a small community and very conservative. 
But I'd heard about Mother Kali’s  and I'd heard about lesbian land 
in Oregon, and all of a sudden the West Coast and Oregon had a 
whole new meaning to me. And I also heard how radical it was, 
and that old hippies didn't die, they moved to Eugene, and things 
like that, that were dear to my heart. And I was back in school. I 
went, in my mid-twenties, back to a community college in Reading, 
Pennsylvania, and from there I applied to one school only, and it 
was U of O.  
Long:  U of O?  
Ryan:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And you identified as a lesbian at this time?  
Ryan:  Yes. Yeah, I was just getting comfortable coming out publicly then, 
and I belonged to a group then that was called— let’s see. We 
named ourselves after a group that was at Penn State, and it was 
Gay— it wasn't Gay and Lesbian Alliance. Gay Students 
Association, GSA. I tried to start  one in the community college in 
Pennsylvania, and there was a history professor and a English 
professor who were living together and lesbian, but they weren't  
out publicly, and both of them convinced a straight woman who 
was with the ACLU to be the professor that we needed to have a 
new organization on campus. So they were truly our advisors, but 
she was our advisor on paper. I started that before I left.  
Long:  Wow. And that was in the late '70s?  
Ryan:  Yeah, would have been. I moved here '80s, so it would have been in 
the '70s. Seventy-eight. I think I was in school there from '78 to '80.  
Raiskin:  And what had you heard about Mother Kali’s  bookstore and the 
lesbian land, and what did you know about it?  
Ryan:  Just that they existed. Heard that there were feminist bookstores, 
right? And there was a women's studies class that some of us 
signed up for, and there weren't enough people signed up, so they 
canceled it. And I went to that history professor who was teaching 
women's studies, and she said they do that every term. They say, 
"Oh, it's closed," and then people don't sign up, and then there's not 
enough.  
 There were things like that going on, and she was one of the people 
who told me that there was a bookstore, and I asked [inaudible 
00:05:11] the woman who owned the bookstore there, and they 
said, "Yeah, one of the feminist bookstores in the country." There's 
maybe a gay or lesbian one in New York, maybe a feminist one in 
Madison, maybe San Francisco. A couple places. But she said, 
"There's one in Eugene, Oregon." I was like, "Oregon. Eugene, 
Oregon." And then they said, "Yeah, and there's lesbian land." And  
I said, "Oh, I was in southern Oregon, but somehow I didn't see 
that while I was there." I was traveling with men, so I didn't know 
about that, didn't hear about that.  
 And at about that time I read an article somewhere, it must have 
been in a feminist newsletter or something, where this woman got a 
job because she was a lesbian. She was out as a lesbian and got a 
job, and it had to do, maybe, with lesbian research, or a lesbian 
center, or something like that, and my eyes got even bigger. I have 
no idea where in the world it was. I think it was in the States. But 
just that people were doing that. And so I became more and more 
radically out, and really  needed to go to the “Left Coast.” 
Raiskin:  When you first arrived in Eugene, what was your experience of the 
lesbian community?  
Ryan:  When I first got here it was August of '80, and I started school in 
the end of the September in '80. First, I had sent some other friends 
of mine ahead to get households and stuff here, and so I already 
knew of women and lesbians living in households, and I was 
looking at the bulletin boards, Sundance, I think, a bulletin board, 
and I found a household that said wanted a lesbian roommate. I 
was like, "I am in the right place. I think I qualify." Then, at things 
like no smoking, I went, "Okay, I'll smoke outside. I mean, 
whatever." No dogs, "They'll love my dog."  
 And then I realized there were a whole bunch of them. None of us 
had to settle, there were choices. I moved into a lesbian household.  
It was with Isbel Ingham and a woman named Joanne, who 
changed— anyway, some different people whose names, I don't 
remember all of them now. Most of them are in Portland or out of 
the country at this point, I think. Some of them worked at 
Starflower, some of them were into— I'm not going to remember 
that one either. Re-evaluation co-counseling. There were different 
things like that, that I began to know people about.  
 And then I discovered the Riv Room, which was owned by straight 
people, but it was a gay bar, and it was important to me that there 
was a women's night. So, myself and a couple of friends went 
down and asked them about that, and they gave us Thursday night 
because they said, "Not many women are going to show up," and 
they said if it was packed enough they'd give us a Friday night 
sometime, but that didn't happen. Anyway, it was packed every 
Thursday night for as long as it remained open.  
Long:  Where was that located?  
Ryan:  It was where the Actor’s Cabaret is now, Seymour's Restaurant. 
There was still a restaurant there, and the bar was next door, but 
the bathrooms were the same.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that scene on Thursday night in the Riv Room?  
Ryan:  Yeah. It was a place to— sadly, one of the only places, but it was a 
place to go and meet other women, and meet other lesbians. And 
not everybody who went was lesbian, but they all felt safe just to be 
there. And sometimes we'd get in trouble because Eugene has a law  
about— I think when you're outside you don't have to wear your 
shirt, and so sometimes we would think, "Oh, well, the guys get to 
take off their shirts when they're dancing. There's no guy here," so 
we'd take off our shirts when we were dancing, and then we'd be 
asked to put them back on. But it was something we quite often 
did. I think it was after a few drinks. I did drink back then, and I 
was one of the people who did that some of the time.  
 And speaking of that, just for a off thing, we also— There was a— I 
wouldn't even call it a magazine. There was a small paper, leaflet 
called Closet Space, and in the back of it we'd get to advertise what 
we were doing, and so we would say, "We're having a lesbian 
potluck at Skinner's Butte Park, and ‘A through M’ bring main 
dishes," and this through that bring these dishes. And then we 
would have baseball games, shirts and no shirts, and the women 
that were bigger breasted decided to wear shirts, or at least bras, 
and the rest of us didn't, and so it was a fun game. And then—  
Raiskin:  Where did you play those games?  
Ryan:  In the park, yeah, in the public park. People would drive by on 
their bicycles, and they really didn't want to stop and gawk, but 
they'd ride by again, or they'd walk by a few times, and we were 
just playing games. And one time there was a guy who came and 
sat at a bench and was watching us, and so a friend of mine went 
over, and sat next to him, and said, "You're really not welcome here 
if this is all you're going to do at the park today." And he left  
because he was noticed. He thought he was invisible, right? And he  
realized that he was making people uncomfortable. We never had 
any problems with that.  
 So, back to the bar. Then we thought we'd take it inside sometimes, 
but that didn't happen. And there was always really good dance 
music. There was always non-alcoholic drinks to drink. There were 
always tables full of women planning the next meeting, or the next 
book club meeting, or the next class that they would take, or the 
next gathering that we were having, or— it became a real meeting 
place. I remember going at 2:00 in the afternoon and meeting with 
people, so it wasn't just a bar. It was a gathering place.  
Long:  When you came to go to school at UO, tell us about what campus 
was like back in the  late— 
Ryan:  1980 I got here.  
Long:  1980, yeah. 
Ryan:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I took a women's studies class and I met 
one of my best friends, Sue DeWhipage, to this day. She was the 
first lesbian that I met in town, and we were buddies. And she was 
part of the  GPA, the Gay People's Alliance, and one of the things 
that they did, that they were known for, was going to health classes 
and talking about what it was like to be a lesbian, or a gay or 
lesbian. There would be a panel of us, and not many people wanted 
to be on them. Not many people were out, or as out, or they didn't 
want to get asked all those questions about their private lives.   
 And then we'd get asked to go to women's studies classes, and that 
was much more fun, and people were like, "Oh, no, no, no, I want 
to go." "No, I want to go. You did a panel at the health class. I'll take 
the women's studies class. That would be much more fun. I'm sure 
a lot of my friends are in there, and they'll have better questions." 
And it was a little office upstairs in the EMU. It was across from 
what was then the Women's Resource Center, and half of that was 
Women in Transition. Downstairs from us was the different 
student ethnic groups, and we were all building coalition all the 
time, checking in with each other, and seeing how we could work 
together, and trying to sponsor things together, and really trying to 
build coalition.  
Long:  Was the group that you worked with called Bridges?  
Ryan:  I don't think so because I'm not remembering that name.  
Raiskin: —panel.  —was called Bridges, but you were probably in the group 
that was before that.  
Ryan:  Right, yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Before that happened. 
Ryan:  And I mostly remember it being Sue and I, and one or two gay men 
that would come over from Gay People's Alliance. Then we 
changed the name to Gay and Lesbian Alliance, and then it was 
Lesbian and Gay, and that was LAG, and so then it became LGB, I 
think, and then the letters grew. And one of the things that we did  
in that first year that I was there, I think I was a co-director a  year 
or two later, is that we decided that every year we would switch co-
directors, and we'd have a committee of people, and we would 
have a gay man and a lesbian as co-directors, or man and woman. 
Didn't matter if they were gay, or bi, or lesbian, but we'd have a 
man and a woman who were co-directors.  
 And we wrote up all this stuff about that, and it went on that way 
probably at least for a decade, and I knew most of the people who 
then were the next person, and the next person, and the next 
person, so that was pretty cool. And it went through all these 
changes. One thing I do remember when I was the director, which 
might have been '81, '82, is that it was also the time during the 
OCA, or one of the conservative citizens’ alliance measures that 
were coming up, so part of me says  '82, '83.  
 But, anyway, during my involvement there we were having a— it 
might have been during Pride Week or something, and we were 
having a conference in the EMU Ballroom. I don't remember who 
we were going to have as the speaker. I want to say Angela Davis, 
but that might just be because I want to say Angela Davis, right? I 
mean, I've sponsored her for other things. I don't know that it was 
that, but I don't think so. I think that was the Women's Symposium.  
 Anyway, I won't try  to remember who was speaking that night, but 
they called in a bomb threat to the GPA and they got our home 
phone numbers and were harassing myself and David Funk, who 
was my co-director, and that was pretty scary. It was probably the  
most scared that I'd been because it seemed on a bigger level. We'd 
certainly had things yelled at us, and, anyway, lots of other 
intimidating— 
Long:  Intimidating?  
Ryan:  Yes, intimidating, uncomfortable. But that was pretty scary. And 
we were so disappointed that we just had to cancel the whole thing, 
and the building was evacuated. There were, I don't know, three to 
five hundred people in the EMU, however many it held at that 
time, and, yeah. And it might have been— one year there was 
Linda Tillery, and Pat Parker, and different people like that we had. 
And some people would come down from Salem, and up from 
southern Oregon, and all over the place to be a part of what we 
produced.  
Long:  Sounds dynamic.  
Ryan:  Yeah, it was.  
Raiskin:  Can you remember other people that you brought in? 
Ryan:  I'm not sure. I might have to email you about that.  
Long:  I’ll make a point  about it later.  
Ryan:  Yeah, those are just who I remember at the time because I 
remember them going to the Riv Room with us afterwards, too, 
when we finally did the show.   
Long:  Oh, wow. Yeah, cool. Can you tell us a little bit more about David 
Funk? Because he figures large in the establishment of the Gay and 
Lesbian Alliance. He was a prominent figure, as I recollect.  
Ryan:  Right. And what's interesting is I believe there's two different 
David Funks, right? And one is a straight man, and when I 
interacted with him he was on the board at Womenspace, I believe. 
Might be a lawyer, not sure. This David Funk that I was co-director 
with, he'd been involved with GPA for quite a while and his mom 
was the person who started the first PFLAG  here, right?  Because he 
had been a suicidal youth and she didn't want to lose her son. And 
then he became real proud, and almost strident, if you will, and 
organized lots of things, and he and I decided to be co-directors 
together the year that we did it.  
 I didn't know him really well outside of that. I got to know his 
mom more because she was so involved in things, and she wanted 
to call the organization FROG, Friends and Relatives of Gays, when 
she first started it. She didn't even know there was a PFLAG. 
Because she really liked frogs and collected them. And that was a 
great name and we all liked it, but then there was an official 
PFLAG, so it folded over into that.  
Long:  Yeah. Do you know where he is now?  
Ryan:  No, I've lost track.  
Long:  Yeah?   
Ryan:  Yeah.  
Long:  Well, interesting. Yeah. You came to UO and you studied. Can you 
tell us what you studied, the kind of classes you took?  
Ryan:  Yeah. I was a psych major, and so I took some psych classes, and I 
took sign language, and I took Spanish. I'd taken those unofficially 
in the community college I was at, and was really much into 
diversity, and equality, and wanting to know things outside of my 
own experience. I took ethnic studies with Ed Coleman, and took 
women's studies, and that might have filled up my schedule that 
first term, right?  
 And I took three years to get my bachelor's just because I loved 
school so much. And then I applied for graduate school here and I 
took another three. So I went six years, including summers. I 
thought, "Really, after this I have to go get a job somewhere? This is 
so much more fun." I was quite the academic, yeah.  
Long:  What was campus like back then?  
Ryan:  Let's see. Well, one of the stories I had written about when I was the 
director of the— I think we were Gay— maybe it was LAG then. 
Anyway, when I was the director— Maybe it was GALA. I think 
that's what we were then. Anyway, a friend of mine, Sharon Elise, 
who was then Sharon Claeyssens, she was a sociology person, and 
also women's studies, and her and I and a bunch of other people 
had made commitments that whenever there was a Women's 
Symposium— Because the Women's Symposiums had started up at  
about that time, and whenever there was a Women's Symposium 
there needed to be women of color on the steering committee or on 
the organizing committee, whatever that committee, administrative 
committee, whatever the committee would be called.  
 And whenever they wouldn't do that, we would boycott the whole 
symposium no matter how many lesbians or women of color we 
got to come do stuff, and what we  were doing, but we'd cancel it in 
time, or still pay people if we were boycotting it, but we would 
cancel them because we kept making the point that we needed to 
have more than just us, and Sharon's point was, "Well, you can't 
just have one woman of color  representing so many different 
ethnicities and cultures." Then we'd get on the committee and we'd 
work on it more, and I was really more of a background worker in 
all of that.  
 And the symposium would happen, and it would be wonderful, 
and we would have the Women's Symposium just before Gay Pride 
Week so that whoever was the big speaker would be at the end of 
that and would be a lesbian of color who was really well known. 
And so that's how we got Angela Davis and people like that, 
because we had monies from both programs to put together to get 
somebody pretty amazing.  
Long:  What was it like on campus to develop friendships or relationships 
with other people or women?   
Ryan:  Right. The place to be was women's studies classes, right? And 
Women's Resource and Referral. I mean, I formed a pretty good 
network of people that many are still in my life or were friends 
with, or now we have found each other on Facebook. And I 
remember a couple of women came into the women's studies class 
that I was taking and talked about creating a baby through 
alternative insemination. Again, I was like, "Wow!" All kinds of 
things happen in Oregon. And, anyway, within a couple of years 
my then partner and I decided that we had wanted to do that. But I 
first heard about the idea of not doing it through a medical 
procedure, but in your own home. Also had a home birth.  
 When my baby was born I was a graduate student and I was 
teaching women's studies, teaching pioneer women in the summer, 
teaching some different classes, and all these different people 
would come and grab the baby while I was teaching and then bring 
her back, or if my partner was off in a class. And so there's a whole 
community of people that would just cycle around Shalan  and that 
would hand her off, and I trusted all of them, and she loved all of 
them. Some are still her aunties to this day, or at least people she 
knows. And when they say, "Oh, I knew you when you were a 
baby," she goes, "Yeah, I remember." And the pictures, the stories, 
and all of that.  
 Again, it was  a community that I formed myself around me, and 
we also formed a moms group way back then and Erika— not  
remembering Erika's last name. She's the person who founded the 
counseling center.  
Raiskin:  Erika Waechter. 
Ryan:  Thank you. Erika Waechter was in that, and so were— boy, there 
were doctors and lawyers. I can't remember all their names right 
now. I can write them down. And all the graduate students that I 
was in school with. And we had a group of lesbian moms with our 
boys and our girls, and I was new to the group, and the other 
babies were maybe two. That was pretty amazing, and we got 
together, I believe, once a month for the potluck. And some of the 
doctors would check the babies' ears and coughs, and the lawyers 
would go, "Have you written something about this?" And, "Do you 
have a will?" Anyway, we were—  
Raiskin:  Did the group have a name?  
Ryan:  Lesbian moms getting together. It was all word of mouth.  
Raiskin:  What year is this?  
Ryan:  Shalan  was born in '86. They probably formed in '83 or '4 because 
some of the kids were about two. They were birth to toddler at that 
point, and— 
Raiskin:  And the doctors and lawyers, they were part of the community?  
Ryan:  Yeah, they were part of the lesbian community. I just couldn't 
remember their name right now and didn't want to get it wrong. I  
can picture them, yeah. And they didn't start it any more than the 
rest of us, it was just— and some of the women were single, some 
were partnered, some had switched partners, but we just 
prioritized the kids and they grew up together.  
Long:  And how old is Shalan  now?  
Ryan:  Thirty-two. 
Long:  Thirty-two, wow.  
Ryan:  Yeah. And she used to say, "And a half," but I'll just throw that in 
now.  
Raiskin:  What would you describe the attitudes towards sexuality in the 
community at that time?  
Ryan:  Yeah. What was interesting, it seemed like the two big debates 
around sexuality, or sexual expression— Or, two or three debates 
about it. One of them was about bisexuals not feeling supported by 
the lesbian and gay community, or the straight community, and 
didn't feel like there was a bisexual community, and it seemed like 
most of the people who identified as bisexual were primarily with 
men. And then, in the women's studies class, this woman who was 
primarily with women came in and talked about identifying as 
bisexual, and it opens everybody's eyes that there began to be this 
range, that it didn't have to be one, two, other. That was one.  
 There was  another piece that went on about if somebody was truly 
a lesbian if they hadn't been sexual with women yet, or if they  
weren't in a relationship, or if— you almost had to be partnered to 
be recognized as lesbian. It became part of the identity, right? There 
was another one that the DS community— dominant, submissive, 
SM community, had a voice in the papers and have a voice in the 
community, and just talking about sexual freedoms, and 
permissions given, and safe sex, even back then, and healthy 
relationships. 
 And the more that people talked about things, again, the more the 
stereotypes were broken. And myself and a woman named Julie 
Porter, we started a class in '82, '83, I believe, called Lesbians: Myth 
and Reality, and it was through either an Escape Program, the 
initials were, or Search Program. Those are both programs in the 
EMU that students, undergraduates, could offer classes through, so 
it was one of those that we did.  
 And at that time it was about half students and about half 
community members, and the community members called it, 
"Lesbians in the midst of reality," and just cracked us up. And I 
hadn't taught anything before. Julie was one of my housemates and 
wanted to just do this with, and we often wrote papers together, 
and edited things for each other, so we decided to do this. And 
there'd been a gay and lesbian class that I took, that a woman 
named Leslie, who obviously used to live in Eugene, she was the 
editor of Closet Space, and she moved to Portland and worked on 
one of the papers up there for a while. I have her last name, but not 
in my mind right now. And so, backtracking—  
Raiskin:  That was just attitudes for sexuality or debates in the community.  
Ryan:  Right, right. Oh, okay, so what we did in our class, right? One of 
the things that we  did is that we used the library here because we 
knew that people could get books from the library, and so we put 
all those lesbian cassettes of lesbian music in the library. We put 
lesbian movies on hold in the library, we put lesbian books, there 
were so  few of them out there, on hold in the library, in this library 
right here. And people would come in, and check things out, and 
write little papers on that lesbian poet or that lesbian musician, and 
it was pretty amazing.  
 And then, in order to really teach the class, we did panels all the 
time, kind of like Phil Donahue's style, and I think I learned that in 
taking women's studies classes, that panels worked great. And so 
we would have panels on different religious and spiritual 
expression in the lesbian community, we'd have panels on sexuality 
expression, we'd have— oh, the other big controversy was 
monogamous or non-monogamous, which then grew into the 
whole poly concept and idea. And so it was this whole— that 
monogamy seems so heterosexual based, and seems so much about 
part of the dominant culture, and didn't really seem a choice. And 
so if it was a choice, there had to be other choices. And if there were 
other choices, we had to talk about them, or act on them, or meet 
about them, or however all that meant.  
 And so those were the different things about sexual expression, or 
more about relationship expression, I guess. And there were  
people, lots of people, who were fairly closeted and very closeted. 
There was lots of political things going down, and some of the 
conservative church things going down that people often came to 
us as teachers, or came to women's studies, or came to women's 
resource and referral, or came to the GALA  office. Not often there if 
somebody was going to see them there, but it was on the same floor 
so we'd wander over and talk in the women's resource.  
 And they were curious about how to have support. There was then 
a gay/lesbian hotline that was an 800 number. I think it was 
nationwide, but there were people here that were friends of mine 
that were volunteering on it. And it wasn't 24/7. It was certain 
times, mostly overnight, and so many of the kids who called, 
people who called, were concerned about being out to their 
families, to their churches, to their communities, to their jobs, right?  
Long:  So it answered questions about sexuality, not necessarily about sex.  
Ryan:  Both, both. More about sexuality. Some about sex, and there was 
also this thing around sex and sexuality. One of the other 
controversies, there was this— I think the group was actually called 
Man/Boy Love or something, and they very much thought that the 
age of consent was way too high. And they would look back at 
Ancient Greece and other kinds of things. I mostly was reading 
about this because I was teaching and learning. And there was lots 
of concern in GALA  about if we included underage kids from 
campus or from the community into things, how do we keep them  
safe? How do we keep them feeling safe? How do we teach them? 
How do we talk about these topics?  
 I mean, it was barely that high schools were having talks about sex 
and safe sex. Nineteen-eighty,  the whole AIDS crisis was just 
opening up, and they thought it was mostly gay men, and so we 
were having lots of discussions about that, but mostly discussions 
about sex.  We're like, "Oh my god. It could kill you." It's like, no, 
there's things called safe sex, and not only gay men get it, and, 
remember, some lesbians sleep with men, and so your lesbian 
partner could be at risk. Lots of different discussions like that, that 
we'd also have, so all those concerns were brought in. 
 And, obviously, whoever was speaking, whether it was in a class, 
or whether it was in a small group, or whether it was a group at the 
bar and there's things we need to talk about, or if it was in a coffee 
house, or at Mother Kali’s— it was always a matter of keeping 
people informed, and keeping people safe, and keeping people— 
what I mean by safe is safe in their freedom about how much they 
wanted to be out. There began to be a big thing about outing 
people, and outing public people, and, "Don't you think so-and-so 
is gay? We should tell everybody." And then it began to trickle 
down to communities, and it was like, "No, that's really  their 
information." That was a lot of the discussions, too, that we would 
have, yeah.   
Long: When you here as a student, and then doing this teaching, is that 
how you supported yourself? Or did you  support yourself in other 
ways?  
Ryan:  When I was here as a student I supported myself on student loans, 
and I supported myself— I was a psychology student, and so you 
could always go in for a psychology experiment they were doing. I 
think they paid five bucks an hour, and you'd take some kind of 
test, and come back and take another test, or look at something and 
flick buttons and switches, and whatever it was, so I did as many of 
those as I could because it was always fun, and I always wondered 
what they were doing. And wouldn't find out until years later, of 
course, right?  
 And I also did some phone work for— one time I found out I was 
doing it for the Republican Party and I quit, but people would just 
advertise saying, "Do you have a good phone voice? Give us a call 
and you can sell rainbow vacuum cleaners, or you can have people 
come to meetings," and I'd get paid for that. As a GTF when I 
became a graduate student— I was a GTF for the three years that I 
was a graduate student, and most of them were in sociology, and 
we, they, did this pretty radical thing of saying, "If we teamed up, 
we would all get free tuition," and we'd get half the pay, but we'd 
all get free tuition.  
 And so we would do those kinds of things. We'd find somebody to 
buddy up teaching with and splitting the salary, getting jobs on the 
side anyway. I had some different jobs on the side that— my  
internship as a third year graduate student— It was a two year 
program, but I decided to go for three because I could. Most of that 
year was spent at what was then called Rape Crisis Network. And 
Nadia Telsey, because she had a master's, was my supervisor and 
she was the director there. That's where we became fast friends, 
and a lot of my teaching is about community, and trauma work, 
and anti-violence work, and community work came from there. 
And I got a job right afterwards there, and then at Womenspace, 
and then at the  ASUO  Women's Center. I was the first director.  
Long: Can you tell us what Womenspace was, or is?  
Ryan:  Yes, is. It still is. Womenspace is a battered women's shelter, and I 
believe the shelter itself is for women, but they also take calls from 
men and direct those. And when I was there, we had started a 
battered lesbians intervention program called BLIP because that's 
how the words fit together, but I almost never said that. I always 
used all the words, Battered Lesbian Intervention Project. That's 
where I was from, not BLIP.  
 But, anyway, and a lot of that was also about learning and 
educating people how it happens in same sex, same gendered 
relationships, and that it could happen, and we can't really take the 
other model and just lay it across there. That was interesting work, 
too. And Womenspace still exists to this day. And Rape Crisis 
Network, when it folded, out of a phoenix it was rebirthed as SASS, 
Sexual Assault Support Services, which is still going on to this day.   
Long:  Is that campus or city?  
Ryan:  City,  and they have a campus rape crisis. We used to do that too, 
where they'd have a campus student group that was affiliated, so I 
believe SASS does that, too. 
Long: So you moved to Eugene at a young age, relatively young age to go 
to college.  
Ryan:  Saturn  return.  
Long:  Uh-huh, and you've been ever since then, basically.  
Ryan:  Yeah, thirty-eight  years.  
Long: Wow, yeah. I'd like to backtrack, if we could, to talk a little bit 
about your growing up years, the family you grew up in, and your 
community, and how that might have affected who you are, or— 
Ryan:  Sure. One of the things about the community that I grew up in— I 
was in a Irish-Italian family, and most of the neighborhood seemed 
to be Irish or Italian. A lot of them were my relatives, right? It 
wasn't very diverse. It became more and more diversified as I grew 
up. Anyway, so in the Catholic part of all of it I had this desire as a 
young kid maybe to be a nun when I grew up. That seemed like a 
good thing. Later, that become one of my first clues about— so you 
just want to go live with a bunch of women, and do really spiritual 
things, and hang out all the time, so when the book Lesbian Nuns  
came out and I met former lesbian nuns—  
 Anyway, so that was just a little interesting kind of a twist there. 
And one of the things about— I think I had a delayed coming out 
to myself because of a Catholic upbringing and family beliefs. And 
so I certainly dated boys, and had boyfriends, and all of that 
because it was the thing you did. And they were my friends, and so 
that was just an interesting twist. And when I came out, some of 
my male friends came out as gay, too. And we're like, "Well, geez, 
now that we know that, that makes life so much easier." And the 
other guys were just supportive, and going, "Yeah, I could have 
told you that," or however that was. And I began to be much closer 
to women.  
 And one of the things that I got from the Italian side of my family, 
almost stereotypically, was a really big family. My mom and her 
twin sister were the youngest of twelve  kids, and I had thirty-three  
first cousins, and probably about ten of them I went to school with, 
or they lived in my neighborhood. And so we all grew up together, 
and if you wanted anything anywhere there was a relative, or a 
friend of a relative, or a neighbor, or somebody dating a relative.  
 And so the way this plays out with when I moved here, and also 
lesbian community, is that I always search for community. I'm 
somebody that has lots of people around  me, and brings people 
together, and knows that you can  trade this with that person, or 
you can ask somebody, because then they know the acupuncturist 
that they went to, or they can refer this.  
Long: Interesting, yeah.   
Ryan:  Big referral community, potlucks. And I think that was part of the 
culture that I was brought up in, is that you're surrounded by 
people. My dad was much more introverted, and I don't know if 
that was part of his Irish background or not. We weren't as close 
with his family, we didn't visit them as much, they didn't live as 
close to us, but there wasn't any bad thing about it. It just wasn't as 
close. And they didn't hug the same way that my Italian relatives 
did. That kind of a thing.  
 And there's many cultures and many personalities that do both of 
those things. That was just my understanding as a little kid, that if 
you wanted a really good hug, you went to these relatives. And the 
relatives we lived around didn't lock their doors. We'd walk in and 
use anybody's bathroom, anybody's kitchen, anybody's teapot, 
probably anybody's stove. There was always food, there was 
always—  
 And when I was really little, my mom— When I was born, my 
mom was raising twin two and half year olds, and so I spent a lot 
of time with her twin sister, who had a baby a month before me, 
but also with her also sister just three years older. I spent a whole 
lot of time with her. And when somebody told me that when I was 
a little bit older, I thought, "Oh my gosh," and then I realized later, 
when I was taking women's studies, "Oh my gosh, how cool is 
that?" And when I raised my kid she was over here with this 
person, we breastfed each other's babies. I mean, it was totally 
forming that whole community again.   
 It's all a matter of perspective. I grew up in this very wonderful 
loving community, and then I don't know if this  is typically Irish, 
but with my dad they would say he had an Irish temper and liked 
to drink like an Irishman. And what was true for a good part of my 
life is that he was pretty violent toward my mom. Toward us kids it 
was spanking. That's why I ran so fast, right? It was like that was 
the typical thing to do. There was not a Womenspace, there wasn't 
a child abuse line to call. There was a relative to run to, neighbors 
to tell, neighbors who would hear things.  
 It was this interesting thing about being safe, and things you could 
talk about, things you couldn't talk about, wondering why they 
stayed together. And part of the reasoning that I would hear is that 
Catholics married forever. And, anyway, as the years went by, 
things changed. I believe the story is  that my mom's older brothers 
had a talking with my dad, and he stayed in the house and treated 
us all much differently after that.  
 And then, when he got to be an old man and got prostate cancer, 
which lasts for a very long time, it seems, he didn't drink  as much 
anymore, and he was a kinder person. And my parents used to 
argue about whose favorite I was. When they were arguing about if 
I did something bad, they'd go, "She was always your favorite." 
Right? But if I did something good, like got As, "Oh, she's my 
favorite." And they might have done it with my other sisters, too. 
 And one of the things that I learned from— well, so I felt special to 
both of them, but I also learned that now with my kids and my  
grandkids I'll say things like, "You are my special ten year old. You 
are my favorite ten-year-old. You are my favorite fourteen-year-
old. You are my favorite curly haired one. You are my favorite 
kinky haired one." And I just say they're my favorite whatever the 
specialness is, so I just turned it around because that's what I do.  
Raiskin: Do you see a relationship between the spiritual  upbringing, 
religious upbringing you had, and the spiritual life you've come to 
lead.  
Ryan:  Some. One of the next things that I did in my life is I moved to 
Pennsylvania for six years, and it was a really conservative place, 
but I moved there because I had friends there, and that's what you 
did. And I came out. I was living— okay, had a friend there. 
Through her I met other friends, and it was this Christian 
household that I was living in. Most of them were Catholics. And 
not ex-Catholics like me, or recovering Catholic, but they were 
practicing Catholics and they were following the Berrigan Brothers.  
 And Berrigan Brothers were these radical Catholic priests who— I 
believe one of them left the priesthood. I believe the other one, the 
priesthood left him. They were part of starting— with  a woman 
whose name I can't remember. Sorry that I can't remember a 
woman's name. Anyway, Berrigan Brothers and a woman who 
might have been a nun were really radically against the war in 
Vietnam, and so they would do all of these wonderfully pacifist 
things. And I was a strong pacifist, and I thought, "My gosh, you 
could be a Catholic and a pacifist? You can be a Catholic and a  
radical, you can be a Catholic—" I was going to say, "and a nun." 
That goes together. But, a nun who's radical, right? And so 
started— I think it was called the Catholic Workers  newspaper.  
 Anyway, so I lived in this community with people who did that, 
and we all had jobs if we chose, and we volunteered at places, and 
we lived in this socialist— now it  might be social democracy way of 
that everything we made went back into the household. We shared 
our cars, we rented a big house on two and half acres that 
somebody went on sabbatical for a few years and happened to rent 
to us because we were who we were.  We called ourselves Children 
of the Light, of all things. I'm sure if you look it up there's probably 
other people who called themselves that. We weren't any of those 
other people, right?  
 And people lived there who were— the youngest was fourteen, I 
was in my mid-twenties, and the oldest was old enough to be my 
mom, so she was probably forty-five or something. It was her 
grandson who had lived with us. And we'd have community 
meetings and do all these radical things. I worked then for a suicide 
hotline, that was my volunteer work. We all volunteered, and every 
Wednesday we all ate almost nothing and donated all of our 
money to the food bank that day. I mean in a healthy way.  
 Anyway, and then that's where I came out. One of the guys there 
who wanted to become a priest came out to me as a gay man, and I 
was like, "Wow, and you're going to be a priest?" He goes, "Yeah. 
I'm going to be celibate either way, but I'm a gay man and I'm  
going to tell everybody." And so he brought the concept. Wow, you 
can be lesbian and gay? You can be gay, lesbian, radical, and 
Catholic? So all of that was just so amazing to me and eye opening 
to me.  
 And during the day I worked at a third largest head shop 
warehouse, meaning that they made things that you smoke pot 
with, and pot  wasn't legal then. And at night I volunteered at a 
theater that was, as you can imagine, mostly gay people. And so I 
just had this most amazing supportive life, and all of my queer 
friends accepted that I lived in this community Christian household 
because they were so radical. And all of my Christian friends liked 
that I did the thing with the theater, and they accepted my gay 
friends, and so I had this little bubble. And then, as I met new 
friends, they had a hard time putting any of that together. And, 
anyway, so that's when I came out and fell in love. It was just such 
a safe place to do that.  
Long:  That was in Pennsylvania? 
Ryan:  Reading, Pennsylvania.  
Long: Reading, uh-huh. And you left that to come to Oregon, so that's an 
interesting choice.  
Ryan:  Yeah, because I was only in that little bubble. The town was very, 
very conservative. And when we would go out at night, my sweetie 
and I, we would go out with a gay male couple. And we'd walk 
into this gay bar or gay restaurant, but we'd walk in man and  
woman, man and woman. And you'd have to have a secret knock, 
the whole thing. And it was in the mid to late '70s, and that's what 
was happening. That's why, when I was then taking the women's 
studies classes and doing all that, I was like, "Wow. It gets better 
from here."  
 In between, I'd gone to Massachusetts for a year, and Simon's Rock. 
Anyway, I was in Berkshires, Massachusetts, in a community of 
lots of lesbians. And I was only there for one year going to school at 
a— It was a school for animal science.  I went to be a dog kennel, 
dog communicator, dog— I took dog psychology, I took grooming, 
I took kennel management. The most famous part of it, though, was 
that I taught dogs hearing ear. I raised hearing ear dogs, and we 
were the second in the nation to do that. That's what drew me to 
the program. And it was a point in my life where I liked dogs more 
than people just for that summer, right? Anyway, it was there that I 
met my sweetie, and we moved down back to Pennsylvania again. 
And then we were like, "Ugh, can't do that."  
Raiskin: Did you consider coming out to the Oregon land, the lesbian land, 
given your communal— 
Ryan:  Well, except for I wanted to go to the U of O, so I thought I'd visit it 
more, I'd be a part of it, but I just wasn't that rural yet. And I 
wanted to be on a campus. I just thrive.  
Raiskin: Were you at all attracted to the spiritual practices of those 
communes? The goddess worship.   
Ryan:  Somewhat, yes. Yes. And I didn't know a lot about that yet, but 
that's part of what I discovered. By the time I moved out here I was 
no longer— even when I was living in that household, no longer 
identifying as Catholic. Much more eclectic. But I discovered Wicca 
when I was here, and I discovered so many more aspects of 
spirituality. I think Eugene is a hotbed of lesbians, hippies, and 
spiritual people, so it's the place to be for me. As you can see, with 
the tie dye, the haircut, the smile, right?  
 Anyway, so in my own personal evolution I just kept finding things 
that fit for me here. And when they didn't fit, I just kept 
redesigning my life or teaching other people how to do it, like 
teaching a lesbian class when there wasn't one yet. I mean, there 
were lesbian literature classes, but there wasn't an intro to lesbians, 
and myth and reality. And being really public about having our 
baby, and how we were doing that, and for me everything I did 
was about community.  
Long: I have a question.  
Ryan:  Yes. 
Long: When you decided with your partner to do the alternative 
insemination, what was that like in Eugene? Did you turn to 
friends? What was— 
Ryan:  Yeah. Well,  one of the women who had come to the women's 
studies class to talk about it, we sought her out and found out who 
her donor was. I mean, it was, uh, public information. And we met  
with him and asked him what it was like to be a donor, and what it 
was we would need to ask or tell any donor that we had, because 
we didn't know anything about that part of it. And that was really 
interesting and kind of fun, that you could have a known donor, 
should you choose, and what that role might be. It was also a time 
in the community that a lot of women would not do the  legalities 
around getting donors, and later the guys would want more 
involvement, or they wouldn't do legalities with their partner 
around— didn't matter who the birthmother was, that you're both 
moms.  
 And there was so many custody fights, and there were so many 
women who had had babies in their marriages with men who then 
left, and they would lose their babies because they were lesbians. 
So it was this really risky, radical thing to do, but we were up for  it, 
right? And then there was a woman in my graduate class in 
counseling psychology, her and her partner had had a baby, and so 
I talked to her about it. And they did a— not a medical one, but 
they did a sperm bank, so they got an anonymous donor and 
inseminated at home.  
 And we decided, I decided— my friend, Sharon Elise, was part of it 
too because she was my best friend, right? Decide things as a 
community, as a family. It's funny. Anyway, so Cheryl, my then 
partner, and I, and a couple of friends in different conversations 
decided which men we would ask. And they were some of the men 
that I'd met at GALA . And because some of them— back then in  
women's studies, when men took the classes, there would  be a male 
facilitator for the men's group, and there'd be maybe one or two 
men with it.  
 So we were looking at who the men facilitators were, right? 
Because they took women's studies. We were looking at who the 
young gay men were, we were looking at these things. And so, 
anyway, we narrowed it down, and my friend Sharon and I wanted 
to have a baby together, and she'd just found out she was pregnant. 
So she goes, "You guys got to get on this," and so, “Oh, Okay!” And 
so we asked the known donor. I just don't want to say his name.  
Long: Yeah, it's okay.  
Ryan:  But we asked him. He was twenty  at the time, I believe, and we 
asked him if he wanted to be the donor, and he was so honored, 
and flattered, and excited about it. And he and his partner came to 
our house probably a few nights later, and did whatever they did, 
and his partner transferred the baby making substance, right, to my 
partner. They were in an upstairs bedroom and they came down. It 
was so— minutes away from— totally fresh and moments away. It 
was all so exciting, and very much about being made with love. 
 Anyway, so we did what we did, and then he came by again on— 
That was a Monday night. Came by again on a Wednesday night, 
we did the same procedure then. The gay man we had talked to 
said, "Wait a couple days." We were like, "Okay. What do we 
know?" But  we told the guy that, and he goes, "Okay." So that was  
one of the hints. And, miraculously, totally miraculously, eight 
months to that day later, to that Wednesday, my daughter was 
born. We just got pregnant on the first try.  
 So my whole pregnancy, of course we were telling everybody as 
soon as we found. And there wasn't Facebook, but there was the 
tele-woman, right? Besides the telephone. Yeah, so we were just 
telling everybody, and it was pretty amazing, and I got lots of 
support. I was in graduate school and I'd already really finished 
just about everything I needed to do, but I was still doing my 
internship, and I had talked to Barbara Pope about teaching 
women's studies some more the third year, and Shalan  was due in 
January, and what could I do that year?  
 And she said, "Oh, I've got something great you can do that year," 
and whatever independent study it would have been called in 
graduate school. She said, "You can do an annotation of books 
about childbirth," or books about a new baby, or things she knew I 
was already reading, right? And just annotated bibliography, and 
that will be your work for that term. And I taught spring term, and, 
as I said, I brought the baby with me. And I graduated, and I 
brought her up when I graduated. And fall term I was very 
pregnant when I was teaching, so got to talk about it all the time.  
Long: And you had a home birth?  
Ryan:  Yes. Had a home birth. And my water broke on a Monday night 
and she wasn't born until Thursday night, so there were certainly  
people recommending that we go, but we went to the midwife, and 
they kept checking things, but I never even registered at a hospital.  
Raiskin: Was it a lay midwife, or—  
Ryan:  Yeah. Nurse midwives were just coming— Lay midwives were 
actually just getting into the scene more, and there was a birthing 
center right across the street from my house. If I could make it to 
the birthing center right across the street from my house, they felt 
satisfied that they could be there. And if they needed any of the 
medical things from there, that kind of thing.  
 And I went into labor on a Wednesday night, right? Eight months 
later. And she was born on a Thursday night, so twenty-four  hours 
of labor, and Shalan  was born. And because it was a Thursday 
night, we called the bar and announced it. And the DJ was in the 
band with Cheryl, and so she announced it.  
Long: That's great.  
Ryan:  Not that that was her only community.  
Raiskin: And what was it like parenting in Eugene?  
Ryan:  Well, we had a lesbian parenting group, which was great. And 
Shalan, when she was little, really thought that women had short 
hair and men had long hair. She thought she was radical at about 
three for having long hair. Ah, long hair. She loves to tell her stories 
about being raised in our family, right? I had her in a couple 
different daycares because Cheryl and I were both working or  
going to school, so she'd be there part time after all the other little 
aunties were picking her up in women's studies and  stuff. And all 
of them were totally fine about being a lesbian couple with a baby.  
 And Cheryl wasn't as comfortable as being out as I was, but she 
chose me as a partner. And so I often tried to not say her last name, 
or some things like that. I mean, people who knew, knew that we 
were together, but she was not the one that was just out there 
claiming it on the stage and stuff, or telling her family.  
 So, anyway, Shalan  was at the YMCA program as a baby, and— 
not as a baby, I'm sorry. Three, four years old, right? By then she 
had three moms now, because Cheryl and I had split up when she 
was about three and a half. And a year later, Cheryl got with 
somebody else, and they were together just about twenty-five years 
before Cheryl died three years ago. And so Shalan  was really 
comfortable with having three moms.  
 And so one time at school she was saying to one of the kids about 
having three moms, and Cheryl walked in to pick her up, and a 
little girl is going, "How do you have three moms?" And Shalan  is 
going, "Well, first Mama Barb and Mama Cheryl were together, and 
then they weren't, and now Cheryl is with— and so now I have 
three moms." Cheryl walked into that and was like, "Oh my." 
Shalan  runs over to her, "Hey!" And everybody knew. Everybody 
was fine with it. She was the only person who was a little bit 
devastated, and then she realized that her kid was going to out her 
all the time.   
 And we were, the three of us, the three moms were the best co-
parents ever. We always prioritized our kid. Everybody looked at 
us as, "Wow, you can be exes and family?" We did every holiday 
together, we were just— And it was the Shalan  family. And that's 
what was one of the best parts about that. And Shalan, even all the 
rest of her life, would say things like, "I'm so glad that you guys 
split up, and I'm so glad that she got with other mama." And she 
was glad because Cheryl was also Irish and Italian, and so it was 
very loud at our house sometimes. And the band played in our 
basement, which was okay, but everything  was just a little bit 
intense. Anyway, so Shalan  liked that she got to have three moms, 
and then they had a son. Anyway, it goes on.  
Raiskin: And how was it in the schools, and with doctors, and— 
Ryan:  Yeah. Well, our doctor was— we got the name of the doctor of the 
lesbian couple I knew had a baby, and I said, "Okay, we're going to 
go to him." And so we went to that doctor and he was fine because 
he already knew a lesbian couple that had AI baby. And in school 
we had her in Magnet Arts, and some other classes, and most of her 
teachers knew us. And her first grade teacher was a gay man, and 
second grade teacher was a woman of color, third grade teacher 
was an artist. I mean, everybody was just so into Shalan  having 
quite a few moms, and so she didn't get any hassle there.  
 Where she got hassle, though, back to the YMCA just for a moment. 
They played out in one of the playgrounds behind South Eugene 
School, and one day when she was there— Shalan  is a quarter—  
Sorry. Yeah, a quarter Native American. Her dad is half Pueblo. 
And kids would say, "Well, if you were really an Indian, if you 
were really Native American, you'd have a horse. If you were really 
Native American, you'd," this, this, and that. And one of the kids 
just really harassed her, and somebody punched her in the belly 
one time.  
 And she got a little older, and she was actually riding horses and 
stuff, and she was in a— so, anyway, she told us about that and we 
talked to them about it, we talked to the parents, and things got 
worked out. And Shalan  would tell the story a lot as part of her 
healing. But then, as she grew a little bit older, she began to believe 
that some of the kids didn't think it was so cool that she had lesbian 
moms.  
 And when she was about eight, maybe third grade that would be, 
eight or nine, she was taking horseback riding lessons and cleaning 
stables, doing all that stuff that they do, and the other girls 
wouldn't sit next to her, and she has no idea why. So she'd go sit 
next them, they'd move. This one girl would move every time. I 
think Shalan  asked her, however all that worked, but the girl told 
her or she figured it out. I think the girl told her that it was because 
she had two moms, and that was a sin, and that wasn't okay, and 
all this kind of stuff. And Shalan  was like, "I don't have two moms. 
I have three moms." Kind of, "Your loss."  
 But she came home crying about that. She was mostly sad that that 
happened in the world, and that it was happening to her. But, since  
most of her experiences were so great, she had lots of resilience and 
she had lots of support. And there was a boy in her class, a couple 
of kids in her classes in Magnet Arts, that would go, "I think it's 
cool that you have a couple of moms," or, "I think it's great that you 
have this or that." I mean, they were, "I want to be your friend." 
Because they would just do the opposite, and their  parents were 
really into— that that would be a great family to hang out with. So 
we didn't really have too much trouble because we were in a 
smaller community and  a bigger community that was then 
surrounded by the rest of them, right? Yeah.  
Long: In your notes I thought you said you also raised some other 
children?  
Ryan:  Yes. Yes, I did. I have two other daughters, Stephanie and Jasmine. 
I'm just thinking of how much of their names I want to say. I do 
remember their names. That's a funny moment. Anyway, and 
they're thirty-six and thirty-seven, and one of them has five kids 
and lives here in Eugene, and the other one has one child who lives 
in Portland. And they came  to live with me unofficially through 
just some circumstances that were happening in their home life, 
and I didn't ever actually foster them. By the time the older one 
came to live with me at fifteen  I tried to foster her, and the foster 
system, just for that year, didn't have room for fifteen-year-olds or 
sixteen-year-olds and couldn't do that. And you can look it up. It's 
very odd, but it happened, and so I couldn't do that. But, anyway, 
so I raised them both, but I didn't bother doing it through the  
system and raise them as— I met them when they were ten and 
eleven, and came to live with me at different stages, but all of their 
kids call me Grandma and know me as their Grandma, and Shalan  
as their Auntie Shalan, and them as cousins, and all of that.  
 Yeah, and both of them, and therefore all their kids, are kids of 
color. And so when I was raising all of them at various times I was 
really the only white person  (some of them are perceived white)— 
in the household, but the only lesbian in the household, and so 
we'd have all those great discussions about social political things 
without ever calling it that. How was your day today? Is all it took 
to talk about what was happening in the world and how it affects 
people, and what's happening for them.  
Long: I don't think we ever talked about your profession and what you 
did after graduate school. Could you talk a little bit about that?  
Ryan:  Sure. Well, I did mention that after graduate school I went to work 
at Rape Crisis Network. And the only reason I left there was I got 
an offer from Womenspace that simply paid more because they had 
better funding, and I was a single mom by then, and all of them 
were like, "Yeah, go do that. That's the best place to go." And then I 
worked there for a while, until the ASUO Women's Center started 
and a job opened up there. And the people at Womenspace were 
going, "Oh, you got to do that. The bennies are better, even if the 
pay— you got to do that." It was a non-teaching faculty position 
that was renewable each year, and so I went and did that.   
Raiskin:  How long did you do that for?  
Ryan:  Less than a year. My contract wasn't renewed, right? And it was 
about a month or two before the end of the school year, and so they 
reassigned me to a room without windows in— did they close the  
Women's Center? A little traumatic memory loss here. I think that 
they put in new rugs or something and had to close it for a while, 
or something, or maybe some of the student groups are still using 
it, but I don't think there was an acting director or anything.  
 They put me in the smaller room over by the Survival Center, 
across the hall by all these other groups, with a desk, and a chair, 
and a lamp, and a file cabinet, and no window. And the 
compromise, the compensation, was that I was researching— a lot 
of the research came out of Rutgers and I was researching 
campuses having somebody on campus who was an advocate for 
queer students, and that job was born from the research that I did, 
that then I couldn't really apply for. It was the interesting way that 
that happened.  
 And the reason that it was not renewed is that I insisted that 
women of color be really involved in more ways than they were, 
and the ASUO is set up where it's very student-run, which is great, 
but so students were my bosses, and then I had a supervisor who 
was the supervisor in the ASUO. It was a funny thing where 
nobody really knew exactly who was supervising who, and who 
you were accountable to for what parts of your job. And it was an 
experiment as we were doing that, so we modeled it after an  
experiment that was working, but it had difficulty working in this 
way.  
 What it came down to was there was a woman named Nyla, who 
was a student, who was Latina and Native. I'm not remembering 
her tribe right now, sorry. She was a few years older  than me, she 
was a single mom, lived in Westmoreland  Student Housing, and 
we were looking for a student representative to go to a women's— 
women's student representative. It wasn't women's studies 
conference, but some conference of government student 
association, women's centers, maybe. Somewhere. And we were 
looking for a representative, or two, or three to go and then come 
back and report back.  
 I nominated her as one of the people to go. And she was a straight 
woman. The other two people who were nominated, I think we had 
to pick one of them, were lesbian, but they were white women, and 
so I was just recommending. I didn't have a vote, but I was 
recommending that she go, and people said, "Okay." Anyway, so 
she went, maybe some other people went, but when  she got back 
they had her do so much that was to get the credit for what she had 
done that it was unfair, at the least. And she had great difficulty 
with it, and was really upset, and I brought Sharon in as my buddy 
to look at the situation.  
 My supervisor, who was the person equal— not equal. Who was 
my supervisor with similar job to me at the ASUO, she said, "Bring 
Sharon Alysse  into this and you will lose your job." I said, "Right  
on." And that's not the worst thing that's happened to many other 
people in compromising situations, right? I mean, I didn't have the 
word then about myself at that moment. I would have said, "Yeah, 
first world problem." It's easier for me to get a job again than it is 
for this person who went through this, and now her 
recommendations and all these things weren't happening for her, 
and this was because Sharon and I and a committee, mostly of 
other women of color, I'm sure, would start a boycott whenever 
there weren't enough women of color included in something.  
 And so it was they, unofficially, who I went to and said, "I need 
your help." And so I got helped right out of a job, right? And they 
hired an African-American woman after that, and— Anyway, and I 
formed an advisory committee for myself that was all women of 
color, or women with disabilities, or women at least different from 
me, if not different from everybody else there, that I would go to 
whenever I was making a decision, just because I thought— Me, 
who loves to form big committees for everything, thought that's the 
way you did things. Yeah, but they had no power. They were an 
advisory committee, yeah.  
Long: What did you do after that?  
Ryan:  Cried. Nope. It was hard. It was really hard. And so what I did 
after that, I got paid through that June, and then I got a job at 
Oregon Social Learning Center and started my private practice. 
And I started my private practice earlier than I had hoped, but  I 
was set to do that. And my private practice was a counseling  
practice at that time, and I worked at Oregon Social Learning 
Center as a way, it would be said, to support my counseling habit, 
right? Because you're trying to build your own business and it was 
halftime. I had the bennies there, and I could bring Shalan  to work 
with me sometimes. She was four or five. No, she was four.  
 I was watching videos and then coding emotion, and so Shalan  
would sit next to me watching Little Mermaid. Yeah, after her 
programs that she was in and stuff. Was there for about two and a 
half years. I loved the program, I loved the work, and then the 
grants just ran out and I was ready to do my own stuff for a while. 
And so I was a counselor for twenty-five years, and then a few 
years ago got the call. Decided to be a life coach instead of a 
counselor, and people began to call me the “Guidess  of Happiness” 
because so much of the coaching that I was doing was about gross 
national happiness instead of gross national product. How to turn 
your life around or prioritize your life to have a happier life and a 
more loving life. That's what I do now.  
Raiskin: And what is your book?  
Ryan:  My book is called Love Loves Fear, and it's illustrated by Elise 
Hennessy, and it's a book about the relationship between love and 
fear. It's a picture book. It looks like a children's book, but it's a 
book for everybody and it is a very hopeful book for these times. I 
was at Oregon authors book sale at Art in the Vineyard yesterday. 
It felt good to be doing that, yeah. And it's going to be an eBook  
any moment.   
Long: Oh, good.  
Raiskin: That’s great!  
Ryan:  I don't think the library has a copy yet.  
Long: We’ll  get it. Was there anything else that you wanted to add that 
we didn't cover?  
Raiskin: I have a question. I wanted to ask you about what you think about 
aging as a lesbian.  
Ryan:  Yeah. What I think about aging altogether is just great. I just turned 
sixty-five and some of the benefits are I get to come to the U of O 
and audit classes, as long as I talk to the professor first. I'm so 
excited. Looked at the catalog, I want to take it all. It felt like I was a 
freshman or something. I was like, "Yes!" I think I might take 
Spanish classes because I'm really committed to relearning that 
anyway, and get a free LTD pass. Anyway, there's some other 
freebies that go along with that.  
 And aging in the lesbian community, what's interesting about that 
is that I'm in great company. As you saw when you had the first 
meeting about all of this, there's so many of us that are aging now 
between fifty-five, seventy-five, eighty, that are still here. And we 
still know each other, and we've known each other over the years, 
and we've watched each other raise our kids or grandkids, and we 
might not all be as  tight knit of a community. Our housing, our 
relationships, our jobs, our kids, our grands, all of those things take  
us away from some of the communities we were in before. But I 
looked around the room and went, "Oh, these are my people." 
Right?  
 And, one day— let me think. Laura Philips and another person, I 
forget who right now, had a thing on lesbians and aging. Maybe it 
was even lesbians and gays, maybe it was LGBTQ queer folks 
aging, but there was something that was mostly older lesbians at 
the Campbell Senior  Center. And we all met and talked about what 
different needs did we have now that we were aging, and I was 
like, "Yay. I'm so glad I live in Eugene and that's the kind of 
conversations we have in our community." Right?  
 And I know that there's been talk about, there is talk about 
different women's land, different places that has women's 
retirement, or aging women, or different things like that, or starting 
a home here for aging lesbians. And percentage wise, we're still 
everywhere, right? I feel pretty good about my connections, and the 
people that are in my life, and aging as a lesbian. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Is there anything we've left out of questioning you that you think 
would be really important for us to know?  
Ryan:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. One of the things is that when Cheryl and I 
were together, she was in the band TranSister , that had just started 
then, and a band Anonymous before that. And then after that, in a 
band called Art Grouveau, but Art Grouveau also had a couple of 
men in it, but the women in it were still lesbian. And TranSister  
was one of the first all lesbian groups that were here in Eugene, and 
so they got so many gigs, and so many non-profits wanted them to 
do benefits, and so it wasn't like a money making job, but it was so 
great.  
 And they practiced in our basement, and Shalan  would fall asleep 
to rock and roll, and whenever you needed her to fall asleep, you 
put on loud music. She'd go see them at Saturday Market when she 
was three years old and she was in her other mom's arms, and we 
were watching the band, and Shalan  dozed off. We were all like, 
"Really? Oh, yeah. Okay." Of course she does. Yeah.  
 And so I'm going to be getting you in touch with the other people 
who were involved in that, and when Cheryl had died, April 20, of 
'85, the band came together, and lots of different bands and 
musicians that she'd played with over time and did lots of tribute 
songs that she had sung or that she had loved, and then sent her, 
her wife, and sent me, and Shalan, and her son all kinds of copies of 
posters and copies of TranSister memorabilia just because it 
honored Cheryl in that way. So there's ways to get that 
information. It was very fun. There were women's dances, and it 
wasn't just at the Riv anymore. That was pretty cool. And I  was a 
muse. I just got to be a background part of it, and so— 
Long: Actually, I have a follow-up question. Were you involved with any 
political activism surrounding the Oregon political measures?   
Ryan:  Yes. I was involved in sociopolitical actions about everything that 
was going on, especially about OCA  and those kinds of things, and 
lots of marches, and phone calls, and leafleting, and meetings, and 
talking to people, and getting people out to vote.  
 And another quick Shalan  story, that when she was really little she 
went to every march with me, and we were walking home from a 
Take Back The Night march, and we're hearing Shalan  in her 
stroller saying, "Women, badaba, badababadabada." Women in 
united. And so it was just so funny. And then a year or two later, 
when she's talking, now we hear it again and she's singing loudly, 
"Women united will never be invited." We thought, "Classic. 
There's a lot of places they're not invited when there's women 
together."  
 And then, when she was about four and now she's walking on her 
own more and everything, she's going, "Mommy, they're not 
marching." She's totally a kid that was brought up on marchings, 
and so that's the best way I can describe my experience of what that 
was like. And just being involved in Rape Crisis Network, and in 
Womenspace, and Rape Crisis Network at the time when Shalan  
was born was— I think we were right next to her, just down the 
road from CALC, and so I was very involved with them. And I 
would often be the white woman on a panel, or when  we were 
doing things about erasing racism or shifting racism, different— 
eliminating racism.   
 I used to do workshops on fat oppression, lesbian oppression. I 
used to do support groups for— as a counselor, do support groups 
for lesbians who were incest survivors because they didn't always 
feel safe going to the other groups because the women would be 
talking about things that didn't really relate to them, necessarily. 
And then I would do groups of lesbian partners of incest survivors 
because if they went to the partner groups,  they didn't really fit in.  
The social change work wasn't just political, but the personal is 
political, right? I thought that everything that I did was political, 
and now I think that every breath I take is political and spiritual. 
It's all the same work, just from a different perspective. Yeah.  
Long:  Thank you. This has been great! 
Raiskin: Thank you so much, that was beautiful.  
Ryan:  Thank you.  Yeah, I'm not too linear, but as— I remember there was 
a book that— Anyway, I can't remember the name of it now either, 
but it was something about women's communication or women 
processing. Anyway, it was about how women do just talk in 
circular fashion, and then come back around, and grab it, and keep 
going, and the interweavings that we  do in our conversations. And 
so I figured you all would steer that, or edit it, or however it went. 
But I would have had to have real notes to be linear.  
Raiskin: Yeah, no, and I  like this,  I mean, because we come around with the 
different topics and— 
Ryan:  Right. It all relates. Yeah. Well, thank you both.   
Long:  Thank you.  
Ryan:  This was very fun.  
Raiskin:  Thank you.  
Ryan:  Yeah.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  