 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries' Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Connie Newman on September 6, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio  in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality studies. Connie, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project, and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Newman:  I agree and give permission.   
Long:  Thank you very much. So let's just begin with a basic question. Can 
you tell us when and where you were born and something about 
your early background?  
Newman:  I was born in 1950, which was a great year to be born. And my 
parents met in the army during the war. They were both in the 
army, my mother was a WAC. So without that war, I would not 
have been born, I would not have existed despite all the horrible 
things that happened, I'm glad I was born. So, they were, it was 
after the war, they were both on the GI Bill  and they were going to 
the University of Kentucky and I was born and my mother had to 
drop out. But most of my memories are from starting when I was 
five, and we moved to California, where my mother was from, and 
my Dad  took a job working for the Department of Defense, and 
specifically the Navy. He was by then a metallurgist. And we 
moved to China Lake which is in the very intense Mojave Desert, 
way out in the middle of nowhere where they develop and test 
weapons.  
 And it's a military base. So I grew up on military— that base and 
one other. And though my parents were not in the military 
anymore, there was that ambiance in some ways. And in some 
ways, it's very special to grow up on a military base because  things 
that other people take for granted just aren't there. Like large 
disparities and wealth don't exist, homeless people don't exist. 
When I was growing up, pay phones didn't exist. I didn't learn how 
to use one until we moved away from there. And everybody's  
parents basically work for the same— it's like a company town in 
someone ways. And in those times, in the Cold War on things that 
they couldn't talk about. So our parents came home and didn't talk 
about their work. So, yeah. And also we moved just for two years 
to Hawaii and worked on a very small base there, lived on a small 
base in a Quonset hut and then we moved back to the desert.  
Raiskin:  What kind of schooling did you have there?  
Newman:  So the schools in California were really good at that time. And I 
went to base schools until high school, and the high school had 
some people from off the base. And, I think I got a good a good 
education, but not complete. There was a lot I didn't know. And we 
moved away when I was in my junior year of high school, and 
moved to Orange County. I got out of high school, I went 
immediately to UC Irvine, which was only two years old at that 
point and had only five buildings. I went back there years later to 
show this to my kids, and I couldn't even tell which buildings were 
those original five, and there were all these plants. But, Irvine was 
what I needed to do and when I was there I started learning, well, 
no, I should back up. So I didn't start learning about politics in 
college. I started learning about politics in high school. Because it 
was the ‘60s and so there  was the whole civil rights movement that 
was strong, and even in Orange County I remember going to 
marches.  
 And in our high school, we were disgruntled with being controlled 
by the administration. And we, especially us girls, objected to  
having to wear dresses. And that was like a movement. And that 
was for kids, that was a political thing. And finally, they backed off 
a little and they said we could wear jeans on Fridays. So that was 
huge.  
Long:  And what year was that?  
Newman:  Sixty-seven. 
Raiskin:  And were you aware of the anti-war movement?  
Newman:  I was part of the anti-war movement. I went to events, and I passed 
out leaflets at my high school.  
Raiskin:  Was that difficult coming from military family?  
Newman:  It made my father very unhappy but he didn't really talk about it. 
Because we grew up in a base where the work was secret, us as 
children, we didn't really participate or identify with that work. We 
were never told about it, we knew it was happening. We developed 
the Sidewinder missile there. They also, in the '50s when the Soviet 
Union sent up Sputnik and the whole American defense 
community got freaked out, and felt like suddenly we were behind, 
every possible base that had a possible capability of putting 
something up there was told to put something up as soon as 
possible. My father told me this within the last ten years. And so 
they dropped all of their projects they were  working on, and they 
started making a satellite to get up there with  Sputnik. They made 
something, he said it was about the size of a basketball, and they  
crammed all the radio technology they could into it, and they shot 
it off into the sky, and it was never seen again. It never got back in 
touch. We don't know what happened to it.  
 In my family, my mother's family is Chicano, Mexican American 
and Native American from California. My father's family— my 
father grew up in Cleveland and they were Germans and another 
string of them came over on the Mayflower. There were issues of 
race and ethnicity that were there but not discussed, and it's taking 
me all my life to sort those things out. Sorting out class and race 
because class, too, when you're from a military base, class looks 
kind of different. There's rank going on among the actual military 
personnel, there are GS ratings for income going on among the 
civilian personnel, but it's— in some ways it's very blatant 
compared to everywhere else, and in other ways some differences 
are hidden. And you can— there is mobility in between those tiers, 
among those tiers.  
Long:  Did you notice with your classmates any disparity? Were your 
classmates aware of class and other differences?  
Newman:  Nobody I knew was talking about class then because we were too 
ignorant. And so, no, I think that what we noticed more was  who 
could do the school work and who had more trouble. You know, 
that's how, it's one of those things when you're in school.  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament as a child or teenager?   
Newman:  I was reserved and obedient until I was thirteen. And I was a Girl 
Scout, I went backpacking, I had crushes on my friends and on a 
couple of teachers, on a camp counselor. I read a lot of science 
fiction. When I was thirteen, everybody was in the confirmation 
class for the Protestant chapel there and I suddenly realized that 
they were expecting me on the day of confirmation to stand up and 
say, I believe that the Bible was literally true, and I said, “Wait, you 
don't mean like, you think it all actually happened?” They said, 
"Yes, and you have to say that.” And I said, “‘Bye.” That was a 
good thing to do. And then I was not religious for— 
Raiskin:  How were your parents about that?  
Newman:  —a very long time. My mother argued with me, but it was more 
that all my friends were there, and that it was not a big town, and it 
looked bad in some way. But in the end, she said, "Okay, don't talk 
to your sister about it and you can do that." Yeah, we had a big 
fight about the swim team too, I didn't want to do that either. And I 
won that one, too. We moved to Orange County in '67, I went to 
high school for a year there, went to the civil rights marches. Anti-
war marches were huge. We were smoking pot and trading it 
among ourselves. And then in '68, but in '68 I went to college, and, 
starting in January, and in the next six months, Martin Luther King 
was assassinated and Robert Kennedy was assassinated, and I fell 
in love with my roommate, and had a hot affair. And that was 
when I said, that was when I learned the word lesbian, which I  
don't know if I had ever heard before. She knew a lot more than I  
did. Or at least that's what she wanted me to think.  
 And so I thought, could that be me? I tried that word on and I 
didn't have any context for the word except what I was feeling, and 
so I wasn't too sure.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any feelings  of worry or concern about your  having a 
relationship with a woman?  
Newman:  Yes. So, I knew it was wrong and bad. I knew it was scandalous 
and would hurt everyone I cared about. And that everybody would 
look at me differently and see me differently, and I didn't know if  I 
could handle that. And then my mother, I think over summer 
break, she went back to L.A. and my— we were writing letters and 
my mother went through my desk and read them. And was so 
upset and told me that I could destroy my father's career, 
everything would be ended, that would be terrible. And I thought, 
I don't know if that's true, could that be true? I don't know. I 
thought, maybe. I mean, this was the government.  
Long:  Did she tell your father?  
Newman:  I don't know, probably. She told him everything, so I think so.  
Long:  Can you, let's just back up for a second.  
Newman:  Sure.   
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit more about your girlfriend and how that 
developed? 
Newman:  It was her idea. She maneuvered things around so that the 
roommate I originally was assigned moved out and she moved in. 
And we went walking under a full moon out on the plains, which 
existed then around there. And it was very romantic and magical, 
and hard, confusing and hard to understand, but it was great.  
Long:  And this is at UC Irvine? 
Newman:  Yeah, yeah. In the dorms. Yep. I didn't know anything about, well, 
it was my first relationship, I knew nothing about relationships, 
and especially lesbian relationships. I didn't know how that should 
go but I had the concept that kids have of, you fall in love, and 
that's forever. And so it was very, very hard to break up, I didn't 
know how to do it and I didn't do it well, about a year later. And I 
came out of that relationship thinking, Okay, I know this about 
myself, and no one else can ever know. I can never tell. And if my 
tea were cooler  [sips tea]  . 
Long:  Did you keep in touch with that young woman?  
Newman:  Off and on. I think we exchanged birthday cards, yeah, not very 
much.  
Raiskin:  Did you see any cultural reflection of lesbian identity in books or 
magazines, or movies, or did you see the word anywhere?   
Newman:  Yeah, she, I think that she knew a couple books or even had a 
couple of those old '50s pulp  things. And so I think I read at least 
one or two of those. But at that time really, really not much else. 
But then everything was changing, right that instant, nationally.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever feel pressure to date young men when you were in 
college?  
Newman:  I felt that pressure in high school. My mother really wanted that to 
happen but I didn't do that. Yeah. When you don't date boys in 
high school, then you have to have a reason for not doing that back 
in those days, you know. Too shy or I don't like him, that kind of 
thing. It's a dishonest position.  
Raiskin:  What were you studying at UC Irvine?  
Newman:  I was being very random. I was studying comparative literature, 
and German, and French, and I was doing some basic science 
courses, stuff like that.  It was very random. But, I went for three 
years and I worked part-time to get myself that far. Yeah. So that 
relationship, that first relationship that was before Stonewall, and I 
think that if Stonewall had happened just a year or two earlier for 
me, I would have been a lot better at understanding what was 
happening and having words for what was happening. And maybe 
even for accepting myself, and feeling okay about it. Stonewall 
happened in 1969 but, by then I was living in a political commune 
that was, and doing anti-war work, mostly, with about maybe 
eleven  or twelve  other people, a collective. It was two houses. And  
it was called Sherwood Forest. Because, one of the things we did 
was we put out an alternative newspaper. And the guys who 
started this, I wasn't one of the founders of this. Their idea was that 
the newspaper would have a different name every time it came out. 
Because that would be against the way things were usually done 
and would show that every issue was independent. I know. That 
would be hard, as a librarian, that would be really hard.  
Newman:  Yeah. But this was in Orange County and this was like of huge 
interest to the police. And, so the newspapers picked up on that 
and it was like, "Oh my God, there are revolutionaries among us, 
and they have this paper and it's Sherwood Forest." It kind of 
remained Sherwood Forest, and we were called Sherwood Forest, the 
collective was called that. And we had a storefront in Anaheim, 
and so I learned many things. And I was also going to school and I 
was also working. But, so we tended the store, and the store was a 
bookstore and it gave us access to all these new left periodicals that 
were coming out similar to ours, but from all over the country. And 
when women's newspapers started coming out we had those too, 
and we took charge  of the ordering for those. That was good, and 
for our own newspaper, I learned how to layout, as it was done in 
those days without computers, how the layout pages and work on 
a light table and that kind of thing. I didn't do a lot of writing for it, 
maybe a little writing for it.  
Raiskin:  What kind of articles were in it?   
Newman:  There were articles about what the police were up to, we were also 
interested in them. There were articles about what the Black 
Panthers were up to. We worked with the local Black Panthers on a 
couple of things, and had social, some social events with  them too. 
That was really— the Black Panthers were so terrifying to the police 
and the general the powers that be, that so many of them were 
killed in those years. But this was before that had happened there. 
We supported their causes, and we pointed at disparities, people 
who didn't have enough to eat, and issues of race, some issues of 
education, a lot about the war though, a lot about the war and how 
it was going and what the government was covering up, and what 
we thought should be done about Nixon. We also organized events, 
we organized marches and speakers. We sold our paper 
everywhere.  
Raiskin:  Why was it called the Sherwood Forest? 
Newman: Well, Robin Hood, you know, robbing from the rich and giving to 
the poor. That's one ideal. So our house, the Sherwood Forest 
was— it was about half men and half women, and included an 
African American man, and a Japanese American woman, and me. 
And I— that was kind of the first place that I heard people say 
things that made me feel like a token. You know, "Are we all white? 
No, we're not all white! this person, this person and Connie prove 
that." I had to start figuring that out. I had to start thinking about it. 
We talked a lot about class, and a lot about race but more from an  
intellectual point of view in a lot of ways, as far as talking about 
ourselves, that was done way less right then than it was later.  
Raiskin:  Did you talk about gender?  
Newman: No, not really. Not until the women's movement, which was just 
about to explode. One thing that happened then and there was— 
three of us went up to cover for the paper as reporters. So, we went 
up to a Chicano picnic in East Los Angeles  that became a police riot 
and eventually involved 30,000 people. And four people were 
killed and more, maybe 150 people were jailed. And I was at the 
picnic, we were at the picnic when the police came over the hill. 
And we were, it was a picnic, it was a political event and there was 
somebody talking with a sound system. And there were people, 
kids and families sitting on the ground eating their lunches, and the 
police came over the little hill there in full riot gear with pepper 
spray, and it was terrifying. It was just terrifying. And they 
marched on this peaceful event and it became a huge, huge riot. 
And things were burned, and we walked around the streets where 
things were burning. Ruben Salazar was killed by the police it is 
thought. He was a reporter  for the Los Angeles Times. 
Long:  What was it called?  
Newman:  It was called the Chicano Moratorium. It was an anti-war thing. But 
it was kind of, in some ways, very pivotal for the Chicano  
movement.  
Raiskin:  What was the police's excuse for sending riot gear?  
Newman:  I don't remember what they said. I know if I had an old copy of our 
paper it would be there. But you know there's always an excuse to 
use your gear. Then around that time, a little after that time, the 
women's movement hit Orange County and things started really 
changing for— in the new left and in collectives like ours, there was 
a lot of— there were relationships that fell apart right away, other 
relationships that started in a new context. There was a group of 
women who started a women's clinic in L.A. and they came down 
and showed us, speculums and how to  use them, and how to do a 
self-abortion. And we learned this, and then we felt it was part of 
our life's work to let people know that. And as women we then 
became— we became the women's movement. And we ran those 
health workshops, and ordered those books like Our Bodies 
Ourselves, those books for people to read and find out about their 
own bodies. We had a speaker's bureau— 
Raiskin:  This is all still through the Sherwood Forest bookstore?  
Newman:  To some extent, we were still in Sherwood Forest. We were still 
Sherwood Forest. But it was coming apart, for different reasons for 
different people, and about let's see— so in '72 we— so yeah, so 
that was the beginning also have discussions about lesbianism, and 
the big questions that bothered people for so long of well, Who is a 
lesbian? Who here is and who isn't and why aren't you? And 
shouldn't you be? Why are you sleeping with the enemy? Well, are 
they the enemy? Or is the enemy a class enemy? Or is the enemy 
our own ways in which we keep ourselves from moving forward?  
Those are all really good questions. And we debated them for the 
next ten or twelve  years and maybe still, yeah.  
Long:  Can I ask a question?  
Newman:  Sure.  
Long:  How did you support yourself during this counter-culture political 
work?  
Newman:  I personally worked part time jobs. I worked at a counter at 
Woolworth’s in a shopping mall. When I was in school, I worked— 
I had a couple of school jobs, one in the cafeteria. I worked at a 
sandwich shop in Costa Mesa for a while and I had a job, I think 
my last job in that area was as a custodian in a federal building, 
where I had to think about how many secret things were in those 
file cabinets that I was sweeping around, and whether I  wanted to 
throw my life away and find out, but I didn't. And I had the key to 
that building.  
Raiskin:  Did they clear you in any kind of special way to— 
Newman:  No. Because I could never have passed, and even the most cursory 
clearance.  But, there wasn't the Internet then, it was a lot more 
trouble to do those things. And also, women were not expected to 
be dangerous, yet. So we decided to move, we decided to move to 
Eugene. First we sent— one of the guys came up to Eugene with his 
guitar, there was this big house at that time right across from where 
the Growers Market is, right across the train tracks from that.   
Long:  On Fifth?  
Newman:  It wasn't exactly on, it was on the hill.  
Long:  At Willamette? 
Newman:  Yeah at, it's more like Fourth there , but yeah. It was this big old 
falling down house with a big old porch, wraparound porch, and 
he sat on that porch and played his guitar and watched the trains 
go in and out, and came back and said, that's where we should go. 
Now they burned down that house too, I think to practice putting 
out fires at some point.  
Raiskin:  So all of you from the— 
Newman:  No four of us came, four of us came.  
Raiskin:  Okay. And who did you come with?  
Newman:  I came, so I was in a relationship with one of the guys,  and that was 
wonderful and difficult. Partly because, partly difficult because we 
didn't believe in monogamy, but it's one thing to not believe in it, 
it's another thing to put up with it. That was really hard.  
Long:  And what year was it that you came  up? 
Newman:  Seventy-two, early '72. So we came up and we found this house at 
Fourth and Adams. And there was a big old house with four 
bedrooms, slumlord, so nothing had been fixed in thirty  years. And 
we paid eleven dollars  a piece, per month to live there. It was a 
great deal. And, a lot of people were coming to Eugene from like  
from New York and faraway  places, wanting to get closer to the 
land, or just to get out of the big city, and a lot of them crashed on 
our floor when they got there, or lived right there in those few 
blocks. So, it was an exciting time.  
Raiskin:  Did you know anything about Eugene  before you came?  
Newman:  Only about the train and the house on the track.  
Long:  What were your impressions of Eugene when you first came here?  
Newman:  Remember that I grew up in the desert, and it was April. And back 
then before global climate change, April was colder and rainier, 
and sometimes it snowed. And I  remember a day when it was 
raining cold rain, and then the sun came out, and that to me was a 
normal state of things and then it started to snow. And it was just 
madness, it was climate madness to me. And, the water, you know 
all winter, the water falling out of the sky and just lying around, 
like not being used for anything, that was pretty weird for  someone 
from California. And when I looked back much later, I thought it 
took about seven years for me to adjust to this climate, and feel like 
it was okay and not an aberration. And maybe it is an aberration, 
but I did adjust.  
Raiskin:  What did the downtown look like at that time?  
Newman:  Well, much smaller, many fewer cars, a couple of old theaters that 
aren't there now. The Odyssey coffee house. And there was a local 
newspaper already going, which I'm not thinking of the name of,  
but it was there. New left type thing, and then there was Women's 
Press, too. The Growers Market started right around then, the 
Country Fair started a couple years before I got here, as a 
Renaissance Fair, but then some California organization calling 
itself Renaissance Fair told them they would take them to court if 
they used that name. So they  said, "Okay, we won't be a 
Renaissance Fair, we'll be the Oregon Country Fair." A lot of people 
who started all those things were downtown, were walking around 
and thinking of things they could do and it was a time of lots of 
possibility. I went and  knocked on the door at Women's Press, and 
said, here I am I can do these newspaper type things.  
 I worked for Women's Press  for probably three or four years. I wrote 
a few things, I did a lot of layout papers around, dispersed them 
here and there, and was on the collective. So to decide what to put 
in and what not. Book reviews, there were books coming out and 
they were really good.  
Long:  Can you describe the Women's Press  and its focus?  
Newman:  Women's Press, the focus was women's liberation. And the focus 
was bringing women's liberation to this town by keeping track of 
what was going on everywhere else, and supporting things that 
were starting up here for women. Yeah.  
Long:  How often was it issued?  
Newman:  Maybe once a month, I'm not sure. Have you had  any other 
women's presses come in and tell you that?   
Raiskin:  We're trying to get a clearer picture of it.  
Newman:  I think it was maybe monthly.  
Raiskin:  Was it fun working on it?  
Newman:  Oh, yeah. It was lots of fun.  
Long:  Who were some of the other people— 
Newman:  And there was no pressure.  
Long:  Who were some of the other people who worked there?  
Newman:  Oh gosh. Well, I'm not sure, I haven't thought about that.  
Long:  Was it completely— 
Newman:  A lot of people came through Women's Press.  
Long:  Yeah,  okay. Was it a completely separate operation than Jackrabbit 
Press?  
Newman:  Yes. 
Long:  Okay.  
Newman:  Completely. Jack Rabbit Press, did not print Women's Press, they 
were an actual press. Women's Press  was a newspaper. And I think 
that the Springfield News is the outfit that printed Women's Press. We 
would lay it all out, gather up all our pages, big pages and take it 
over to Springfield, and get it printed, bring it back.   
Raiskin:  How much of your time did it take for you to – 
Newman:  Not a lot because  it was only a monthly I think. Or whenever we 
got it out.  
Long:  And then it changed the spelling of its name to women with a Y, 
didn't it?  
Newman:  It did that at some point. That might have been slightly after my 
time.  
Long:  Okay.  
Newman:  Or maybe not, I mean, maybe that was an experiment like thing.  
Raiskin:  You said there were book reviews, do you remember what was 
being reviewed and read, and talked about?  
Newman:  Yes, there were books about theory, Sonia Johnson's book, which is 
really hard to read. And the old Betty Friedan book that came 
around 1961 or whenever that was.  
Long:  The Feminine Mystique. 
Newman:  Yeah. Germaine Greer's book, what's that one called?  
Raiskin:  Female Eunuch? 
Newman:  Female Eunuch, yeah. And wasn't there A Fear of Falling one? 
Maybe that was a novel.  
Raiskin:  Fear of Flying.  
Newman:  Fear of Flying. 
Long:  Erica Jong?  
Newman:  That's it. And Ursula Le Guin’s books, and James Tiptree's books, 
and in general with science fiction, some new names: Joanna Russ 
and later maybe Kate Wilhelm, and all those people. Kate Wilhelm 
lived here in Eugene— 
Long:  Yeah.  
Newman:  —Back then.  
Long:  And just died recently.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Long:  Fairly recently.  
Newman:  Yeah.  Women's Press  was fun. And we met people  coming, speakers 
coming. I think we sponsored speakers in fact. Feminists coming 
and speaking here, and/or we saw them at the university and then 
we reported on them.  
Long:  And just for clarification, when you came here with those three 
other people, were  you still coming as the Sherwood Forest group, 
or had that broken up?  
Newman:  When we left and stopped our newspaper and our store, which 
was called also Sherwood Forest, then I don't even think there was  
discussion about the name. We were still a collective in some ways, 
but we were not Sherwood Forest.  
Long:  Okay. And what did the other people do when they got to Eugene?  
Newman:  What did they do? Well, one of them left pretty immediately and 
that was the one who convinced us all to come here. He decided it 
was too hippie and he went to the Bay Area. And another did a lot 
of the things I did, she and I did, she worked on Women's Press  too, 
so that was Barbara Connolly. And she was here for years. And 
Tony, who was my partner, was here until about 1980 and then he 
moved away.  
Raiskin:  Did you see the growing lesbian community in Eugene at the time 
when you came?  
Newman:  When we came? Yeah, in a way, I mean it wasn't that different from 
where I had come from, it wasn't— it was different in some ways 
but it wasn't different in terms of numbers and power or anything 
like that. What was different about it from Orange County was a 
really strong back-to-the-land  movement in it. Which, from our 
politics, was kind of reactionary, but people, women's land, the 
whole— the separatism thing was much stronger here. Right, that 
was true. And there was much more discussion of it and what is  
separatism? Is it only actually being physically separate and going 
back to the land, and trying to become self-sufficient, to be really 
separate, not just from men and individual men, but from all things 
that are dominated by men? Or is it more a stance that you can take  
in your life, you live in town, you have a job, you have to work for 
men and with men. So, in what ways could you be a  separatist and 
still be that person? Which is more what more people were, what 
more people were doing.  
 And there were— and the hippie thing was very strong so, and 
that's connected with the back to the land. Eating good food and 
Starflower, eating natural food. And with Starflower  affecting the 
laws of the state as far as organic food, what can be called organic.  
Long:  So are you saying that Starflower had an influence on how the state 
of Oregon described the types of food?  
Newman:  Wrote the law.  
Long:  Wow. 
Newman:  One of the people in Starflower. Okay, so then, okay. Let's see. Oh 
yeah, kept doing anti-war work. I got pepper sprayed close to here. 
But Nixon was tottering by then and people were starting to use 
the term gay rights. It was starting to be thought of as a, part of it as 
a civil rights issue. I worked first at  Willamette People's Coop. It 
was a little storefront for natural foods at Twenty-second  and 
Emerald. And I worked there about three years, for almost no 
money, but we could take food home . And my rent was eleven 
dollars  a month, so it wasn't too bad.  It was kind of a long bike ride, 
especially in the rain. But it was good, I worked there. And then 
one day, these two, this truck, little truck pulled up to the garage 
where we took food in, and these two tiny little women jumped  
down and started flinging these fifty pound bags. You probably 
heard this before.  
 And they were really tiny, both of them. That was Nina and Rena. 
And I asked them who they were, and what they were doing, and 
they said, "Starflower , and you should come and apply." So I went 
right over and I applied. And Starflower  at that time I think was, 
like two couples, two straight couples, Nina and Rena, and maybe  
that was all. In my interview they said, "Can you drive a stick 
shift?" And I said, “Yes, of course.” this was the old days. And they 
said, "Are you willing to drive down tomorrow morning to 
California and pick up some rice with this man, Charlie?" And I 
said, “Yes.” So they said, "Okay, you're hired." And the next 
morning Charlie and I went  down and picked up the rice.  
Long:  Was Charlie one of the founders there?  
Newman:  Charlie was the person who wrote that law about— 
Long:  What was his last name?  
Newman:  Charlie and Debbie Glass.  
Long:  Glass.  
Newman:  Glass, yeah.  
Long:  Okay.  
Newman:  Yeah, Charlie and Debbie were responsible and probably Margaret 
Cormier. Because there wasn't anything restricting the use of the  
word organic in advertising, so that anyone with any  food could 
put that term on their packaging. And it was just starting to be a 
thing that would sell, to call  something organic. They put in, they 
made this law happen they pushed for this law, and it was adopted 
saying the term is “organically grown.”  This is no longer the law. 
And this is what organically grown means in Oregon, and it was 
very specific about what— how that product could have been 
grown, and what things could have been, or could not have been 
sprayed on it or stirred into it. That was very early in Starflower  
and we were mostly doing rice from California, organically grown 
rice, and we had our, that was right around when we started 
making our own cheese with our own brand. And that was at a 
creamery down near Grants Pass.  
 Every week we sent trucks down there to get the cheese and it 
came in forty  pound blocks, cheddar and jack, and to go on down 
to the Chico area for rice and fruit juice, is mostly what we got 
there. And later we were getting organically grown beans and peas, 
and things from Idaho. We had— the people who worked on that 
had those links, and you've probably heard about this from 
Shoshana, with farmers all around the Northwest, and in terms of 
how they grew their food and what we could buy from them. And 
Starflower  was really early into this business or it could never have 
succeeded the way we ran it, because we didn't know anything. But 
we were learning. We were learning but we didn't have any of 
those— at least I had none of those traditional skills. And we were  
learning as we went. And again, we were working for next to 
nothing but we could take food home.  That was good.  
Long:  Would you mind taking a moment just to describe Charlie and 
Debbie Glass for us?  
Newman:  Yes. So, I wasn't super close to them, but Debbie was brilliant and a 
musician. She played rock and roll. And Charlie, too, was brilliant, 
but it was— people tended to dislike him because he was a man 
and we were— Starflower  was moving to being a women's 
collective, but there was Charlie. And because he knew a lot more 
than some of us did, and that was a pain in the neck.  
Long:  What happened?  
Newman:  Well, what happened? He eventually left but that was after my 
time. It grew a lot right around in '74 and '75. I started in '74 I think, 
yeah, '74. And we started out with the concept that this collectivist 
concept that there would be no hierarchy, all information would be 
shared, and  all tasks would be shared. I was hired to drive because 
I could drive a stick shift but, anyone else could learn to drive a 
stick shift and be a truck driver. And everyone could write 
invoices, some better and some worse, as far as the arithmetic goes. 
But so much of it was by hand then, it was really primitive 
warehouse situation. It was at Lawrence and Fourth.  And, we did 
not have any mechanization in the warehouse. So we— a little later 
when we were moving a lot of food, we would have a semi back up  
to the loading gate, and it would be full of fifty pound bags. I know 
you've heard the story.  
 And we would just  line up and start slinging them to each other, 
and we were so strong, we were so muscly, it was great. It was 
really good. But you know, probably could have been —eventually  
then we got one that could pick up a— palette, a palette jacket, it 
was called, that helped a lot.  
Raiskin:  Did you enjoy working there?  
Newman:  I loved working there, I loved it. It was so exhilarating to be 
physically working so hard with everyone else working that hard. 
Because there— you know, in a lot of ways we did not have 
hierarchy. Everyone came out when that truck backed up, everyone 
came out, and slung those bags around. And, we all shared it and 
it's just a fantastic feeling to move that much stuff and have it be 
over at the end of the day, and sit down and relax. It was great.  
Long:  Can you describe what might have been a fun day at Starflower? 
Newman:  Well, that can be thought of as fun. A lot of it was just warehouse 
work. We sold to all the little stores around here that were natural 
food stores, and there were, at some point, like six to ten of them. 
And so they would call up their orders and they would, usually 
they would come over to get it if they had a truck and if not, we 
would take it to them. And so they would call it and order, 
somebody would answer the phone and write it down, take it out 
to the warehouse. Somebody working in the warehouse would  
collect all those things and put them there by the loading dock, and 
then the store would come and get them. And we would write the 
invoice, and they would pay us. That was the warehouse work. The 
trucking work was, in some ways more fun. It was, for instance, 
going down I-5, there were little stops that we made along the way 
where little stores were, and we'd unload stuff there, and some of 
them would be like— their mouths dropped open because it was 
women doing this.  
 And we, everyday ran into the thing of, "Could I talk to the boss? 
Could I talk to your boss?" Meaning, could I talk to the man? And 
we'd have to explain, we did. Yeah, you're talking to her. 
Long:  And then the people you would routinely take food to got used 
to— 
Newman:  Oh, yeah.  
Long:  —you being there?  
Newman:  Oh, yeah. Right, people get used to it right away. And we ate, we 
ate together a lot, partied together. I got mixed up in this custody 
divorce thing that, it was right in the middle of the gay community 
because both of these people identified that way, but they had these 
two children. The little girl was four and the little boy was a baby. 
And she, the mother, Janet, came to me and said, "Will you take my 
daughter?" And I said, okay for how long? She said, "Indefinitely. 
But I can't go on like this. I can't go on being a single mother and 
not getting any help from him, and I’m going to divorce him  
anyway." I had Monica for her kindergarten year while I was 
working at Starflower. And at this point I was not living in my 
original house, I was living across the street, forgot about that part.  
 And my roommates were not too interested in having this little girl 
around, but Starflower  was very supportive. And when I had to 
bring her, I had to leave work, go get her for half day kindergarten 
was all there was then, pick her up on my bike, and get her to come 
back to the warehouse with me.  And she was a warehouse kid. She 
colored and she watched, and she talked to people, and there was 
no problem and no issue, people were kind to her. So that was 
good.  
Raiskin:  Were there other kids in the— workers?  
Newman:  Yeah there were some other kids, a few. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any relationships  with women who were working at 
Starflower? 
Newman:  Yes. I was in a relationship, a Starflower  relationship. And that was 
a three year intense, wonderful relationship, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember a lot of relationship drama at Starflower? 
Newman:  Of course, there was lots of it. There was because people were 
falling in love and then falling out of love. Falling in love with 
other people and breaking up in not very good ways. And because 
we all worked together it was all— and because we worked really 
long hours sometimes, there wasn't— as owners of the business  
and we were all owners of the business, we stayed until the work 
was done. There wasn't any going home at 5:00.  A lot of that was 
just enacted right there. People were breaking up, people were 
miserable. But they were very happy when they were happy, and 
then they would want to go trucking together.  
Raiskin:  Where did you go at night to socialize after work?  
Newman:  Well, I went to mostly women's events. You've heard about 
Wallflower probably.  
Raiskin:  I haven't heard from an audience member.  
Newman:  Oh. Yeah they did these wonderful dances and musical things.  
Raiskin:  What did you like about them?  
Newman:  They were women who were dancers first, and then they 
discovered that they were falling in love with each other, or with 
other women. And because they were artists, it was there in their 
art, their astonishment and their wonder and ecstasy was all there. 
They were quite wonderful. And also one of them was Holly Near's 
sister, so Holly Near would come to visit and did concerts here, 
and I was— we were all in love with Holly Near. So those things 
and poetry readings, and the university used to show movies for 
free, old movies and so I did a lot of those, and saw a lot of things 
from the '30s.  
Long:  Can you tell us about the importance of women's music. You 
mentioned Holly Near so it made me think—  
Newman:  Holly Near, yeah. In terms of singers, they gave voice to what a lot 
of us were going through that— who couldn't have expressed it. 
Definitely who couldn't have sang it and composed songs about it. 
And Holly Near also was open about passion, and open about 
heartbreak, and we sat there and listened to her and, with tears 
running down our cheeks, because she was speaking for all of us. 
Yeah.  
Long: So you're still working at Starflower? 
Newman:  Yes. I worked at Starflower. 
Long:  How many years did you work  there? 
Newman:  I worked there full time for three years, or maybe almost four. And 
then, I was approached by someone who asked me if I would like 
to help start up a law office  that would be collectively run, and I 
said, “Okay.” This was Michael Goldstein, who was the lawyer for 
Hoedads, which is a great big tree planting cooperative. And our 
offices were right next door to their offices in the  Lane building. So, 
we set up that office, even sketching out where the walls would be, 
because they were— it had been a boarding house for a long time 
for men. I think maybe originally from men who worked on the 
railroads because it's right there by the tracks. And then it had kind 
of been gutted and was becoming offices. This was one of the 
offices. I worked there.  
Raiskin:  Why were you tapped to work there?   
Newman:  Because I was in— so, I was always in study groups. I was always 
in political study groups, I think that's why. Although I haven't 
thought about that in a long time but, I was in groups that studied 
class relationships and political theory. We read Marx and Lenin 
and I had read Trotsky in college, and other thinkers that are less 
well known and discussed them. And so I was doing that here as 
well as previously in Orange County. So I was part of that circle of 
people. And I think that's how it came about. And because I was in 
a collective.  
Raiskin:  And you could write.  
Newman:  Well, so the problem with that idea, the collective law office, is that 
it's not legal. You can’t have a collective law office unless the 
collective is just among lawyers, lawyers could maybe run things 
that way. But you can’t have someone like me who has no law 
training to— as being part of deciding what cases to take and how 
to argue them. It's not legal. We fell back into a more traditional 
structure than we had hoped for at the beginning. But we still 
discussed the cases, we still had meetings of everybody and we  
discussed the cases.  
Raiskin:  What kind of cases did you take?  
Newman:  Well, the Hoedads generated lots of cases, and they were the main 
client. They had contract issues, because they consisted of little 
crews that they would get contracts for planting where it had been 
logged. And they would go out with their camping gear and they  
would camp on that hillside, and they would plant X number of 
thousand trees per time, according to their contract. So, sometimes 
these things can be done, and sometimes the terrain is much 
harsher than had been set forth and it can't be done. Sometimes the 
little trees that you're planting turn out to not have had water for 
two weeks and they all die, and then whose fault is that? So, all that 
kind of thing. And in addition, Hoedads being human beings, had 
personal legal issues, and we worked on some of those personal 
legal issues.  
Raiskin:  Was it like a workman's comp element to the Hoedads and their 
legal protections?  
Newman:  Yes, the Hoedads were an anomaly when they started. It hadn't 
been done really that way before, that work. The question of 
worker’s compensation was something that the lawyers worked on, 
in order to get coverage for people. Yeah, and the Hoedads 
struggled with women's liberation and equality of women in their 
small crews because  it had been traditionally men's work. Men 
could be maybe faster at it, and yet they had that ideal, they had a 
feminist ideal, so that was a good thing.  
Raiskin:  Were there any sexual harassment cases?  
Newman:  Yeah, but not the way you're thinking. Not those. There were some 
cases that had sexual issues but yeah, I'm still not going to talk 
about those things because they're people's legal stuff.  
Raiskin:  Okay.   
Newman:  I think we had some other collective groups that were clients and, 
some personal, people just looking for a lawyer and working.  
Raiskin:  And what work did you do there?  
Newman:  I did mostly secretarial stuff. I did a lot of typing on an IBM 
Selectric, I answered the phone, I greeted people when they came 
in, took naps at my desk. Went down and bought cookies from the 
bakery downstairs, the smell of the cookies would come up at a 
certain time every afternoon and we'd send someone down to get 
some. Yeah. And I went to the National Lawyers Guild, the 
national meeting in, I think it was '78, with, did I go with people? 
Yeah, with Mike, Michael, and one of the law students. And that 
was where we met Marlene and have you— 
Raiskin:  Marlene Dresher?  
Newman:  —Interviewed Marlene?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Newman:  Yeah, so that was an interesting thing because she and I started 
talking at one of the events, and she said she was going up to 
Oregon anyway, because her brother was there and she'd like to see 
Eugene and I said, so we can go back together. And we were 
walking back to the car to leave, and it was raining, and there was 
this guy following us. I don't know if she told you this story. There 
was a guy following us, this was in San Francisco, on the street and 
he was saying something. And he was kind of a street  guy, and he  
was a little scary. And he was saying something over again and it 
was not intelligible. And we got to the car and I took out the key, 
and just as I was about to put the key in, I suddenly understood 
what he was saying. He was saying, "What time is it?" And I started 
to look at my watch.  
 And the next thing I knew I was looking up, I was laying on the 
sidewalk looking up and there were all these people around. This 
guy had come up behind me and socked me here so hard, it 
knocked me out cold and my jaw was puffing up, and Marlene 
chased him back but he was pretty crazy and he didn't even flee, he 
was still there to be arrested when the police came. Marlene ended 
up going back up with Michael, because I couldn't go then and they 
became partners in the law office. And Marlene then did a lot of 
work for different women's organizations and lesbian 
organizations.  
Raiskin:  As a collective, did you all decide together to have Marlene join as 
a partner?  
Newman:  Again, that would be not a thing that we could have legally done, 
but yes, we talked about it, yeah.  
Raiskin:  And what did she bring to the law firm?  
Newman:  A special interest in women's issues and legal issue, I mean legal 
issues having to do with lesbians. And she immediately made lots  
of contacts in the women's community and lesbian communities. So 
she brought in work related to issues like that.   
Raiskin:  What kind of legal advice or cases did lesbians come to your office 
for? 
Newman:  Some personal stuff.  
Raiskin:  Like wills or?  
Newman: Some things like that. There was a case where someone was 
attacked on the street. And, I don't know if at that time people were 
coming to lawyers to divide property if they were breaking up. But 
then she eventually worked at the university, too. And then  I think 
she became the lawyer for Starflower, but I hadn't been, I wasn't at 
Starflower  then although I worked at Starflower  off and on for the 
board, taking minutes for the board meetings for years. It was a 
long, long workday. Work all day at the law office, get on my bike, 
and by then Starflower  was out in the industrial west side, and that 
was a long bike ride to go out there and take minutes of the board 
by hand, yeah. And type them all up.  
Long:  So how many years did you work at the law office?  
Newman: I worked there from like '77 to '80, the end of '83. So, five or six 
years.  
Raiskin:  So during that time you  have that, we have measure  51, 
Referendum 51.  
Newman:  Right, right so I did work on that.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us a bit about that?   
Long:  Can you describe it?  
Newman:  That was an attempt to get a local legal recognition of gay rights as 
something that you could not discriminate on the basis of, in the 
city of Eugene. And it was— it became a much bigger thing 
because money came in against the gay  rights stand from outside 
Eugene, and from outside the state. I think there was the Catholic 
Church and the Mormon churches, were very interested in 
squashing down gay rights. And so they were funding the main 
opposition, the group that was opposed to the  gay rights part of it, 
Oregon Citizens Alliance. And it was— personally, it was very 
weird to see those people. To see people who lived here, being an 
enemy, choosing to be an enemy of a group of people who didn't 
have rights, of my people who didn't have  rights. That they would 
go out of their way to try to oppress people who had not done 
anything to hurt them.  
 But, it was a great thing to work on, I learned a lot. I did a lot of 
helping to figure out how we would run this thing. But there were 
different  groups who worked on it. And there were, especially 
there were gay men who were professionals and had incomes, who 
were kind of the face of it. The face of No on 51. And the rest of us 
kind of had our own niches and our own communities, and so we 
talked about how we would, what we should do. How would we 
reach people? Well, the thing  was to get people to vote. There was a 
lot of— I remember doing door to door stuff, passing out leaflets 
everywhere I went, all the time, writing leaflets, and speaking  
about it. And I remember a march where we had our banners and it 
was downtown, and this guy came up, came rushing up to me and 
hit me, hit me and pushed me out. And I just, and then the women 
around me, I wasn't with any particular person, but I knew 
everybody. 
 The women around me like immediately were protective and he 
dropped away. And then later when we had gotten to wherever we 
were getting to for the rally, this guy came up with a cop, and he 
said, "She's the one. She's the one, she pushed me." And it was such 
a surprise. And the cop said— the cop clearly, even though this guy 
was well dressed, he looked like he worked downtown, wasn't 
going for his story. And he said, "Is that what happened?" And I 
said, “No.” And he said, "Did anyone else see this?" And  I think 
Margaret Cormier  came up and said, "He hit her, and we all saw it." 
And, and the cop said to the guy, "Do you still want to press 
charges?" And he said, "No," and he left. So that was kind of 
exciting and kind of scary. I mean, I don't know why me. I don't 
know why me. Maybe he just at that moment, he had had enough 
and he had to attack somebody.  
 Then we lost that. Oh, and so one thing for me about working on 
that issue was that for the first time I worked with gay men, and we 
had a collective of men and women, gay and lesbian who were left 
leaning. And we saw this, this campaign not so much as an end in 
itself, but we tried to see the long term, whether we win or lose 
here, what is our long term strategy? How will we get there? And  
so we met and we talked about those things, and we also, we 
became friends. I remember we went cross country skiing together, 
it's first time I'd ever done that and it's really hard. But it was 
wonderful and we had a cabin out there and  that we stayed in 
when we did that. Those friendship connections happened, that 
wouldn't have happened otherwise if we hadn't been working on 
something that affected us, would affect us all.  
 And then when we lost that one, the men all moved away, and they 
moved to San Francisco. Why they moved was probably 
disappointment. We really put everything into that campaign, I 
mean, we worked on it day and night for so long. And we were 
right. I mean, we were on the right side, but we lost and so, that 
was very discouraging. And San Francisco was a golden city calling 
them and they all took off. And I wrote to one guy for quite a 
while, and they mostly all died of AIDS there.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think the men left more than the women left?  
Newman:  Well, I think because of San Francisco, I think for men at that time, 
and maybe still now, it's the place, it's the place to go and where 
you can really be who you are. And find your community.  
Raiskin:  It's interesting to hear that there were more gay men here before 
that.  
Newman:  Yeah. Well, at least that whole group of them left. And then died.   
Long:  Can you tell us some of the people you worked with on the 
campaign?  
Newman:  I worked with, in that group, Gary Morgret, Kent  Newbie, David 
Larsen, Jenna, Jenna, I can't think of her last name. Shoshana  
Cohen, and we were pretty much that— we were pretty much a 
collective group that worked on that. There might have been a 
couple of other people.  
Raiskin:  And were you involved in all the other measures?  
Newman:  Not as much as that one. For one thing, for me from where I was 
coming from, my political background and foreground, the call for 
gay marriage seemed reactionary. And I didn't think of marriage as 
something that really anyone should be doing, kind of like letting 
the state get its fingers into your relationship, whether you were 
straight or not straight. It didn't seem to me like the thing to be 
working on, and it became more and more central for the gay 
movement. I stood back more from that. And since then I have 
realized it was important, it was an important thing to get. And by 
the time we did, by the time it was legalized, it was so moving, it 
was so moving. But that was a long time later.  
Raiskin:  Did it surprise you, and we're skipping over a lot of anti-gay 
measures but, because the marriage equality happened after that. 
But did it surprise you about the momentum of the marriage 
equality movement?   
Newman:  I did not think that would happen in my lifetime. That was another 
aspect of it. I didn't think it was winnable in the next fifty years, 
because the hatred against gay people for asking for that was so 
intense, it didn't seem like it could be overcome that soon. People 
did a lot of work and made it happen.  
Raiskin:  Given your background, how did you feel about the movement 
towards exclusion of gay people in the military?  
Newman:  Towards excluding them from— 
Raiskin:  For the inclusion of them.  
Newman:  Oh for the inclusion?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Newman:  Well, the military has almost never done anything I thought was a 
good thing but, I think that gay people— it's a civil right. I mean, 
the way our country is, and the way things are organized, it's 
outrageous that any group of people who want to be in the military 
should be told they can't. As a group.  
Raiskin:  So you stayed living in the Whiteaker, near— 
Newman:  Yes, I moved, I had moved across the street  into a little house 
with— caddy-corner from my original house, with two women 
who were living there already. One of them was Kate, known as 
Kate Jackrabbit, Kate Thompson, and the other one was named 
Jean. And Kate and Jean  wanted to buy that little house, and they  
were negotiating to buy it from a man who owned it, but lived 
across in the south hills somewhere. He was a dentist. And then 
they, Kate and Jean,  had a falling out and they realized they 
couldn't live together, and they couldn't own the house together, 
and the house was not yet bought. And Jean  did a sneaky thing 
with her boyfriend and went and talked to the agent without telling 
Kate, and then this got all over the women's community, and 
people were outraged at Jean  for doing that.  
 And Jean  realized that had been a mistake. And she said to Kate, 
"All right let's toss a coin for it." And so they tossed a coin, I was 
there. And Kate won the toss and  Jean  said, "Okay, well how are 
you going to be able to buy this house? Because if you can't buy it 
and you lose it, that's not fair." And Katie looked at me and said, 
"Will you go  in on?" I said, all right. That's how I came to have that 
house. We bought it, I had to borrow the money from Starflower, 
Starflower had this wonderful policy of— we all had equity in the 
company, of letting people take out their equity in order to put 
down payments on houses, specifically, they wanted to do that. 
The house  was only $12,500, and the down payment was I think 
$1,000. We just, we each— Starflower  lent me my $500 in equity 
and we bought the house. And, yeah.  
 And then Katie and I— she decided to move a couple years later to 
Seattle and so I, at that point I bought her out. I had a slightly better 
income at the law office.  
Raiskin:  And that's where you live to this day?   
Newman:  Yeah. It's a bigger house now, added an upstairs to it.  
Long:  Could you describe for us some of the women, the lesbians in the 
community you worked with on the various ballot measures or 
Referendum 51, and some of the activities you did in those 
campaigns? What was the group the Thespians Lesbians or the 
Lesbian Thespians?  
Newman:  The Footlights Faggots and the Lesbian Thespians.  
Long:  Okay. 
Raiskin:  Right say it again.  
Long:  Yeah say— 
Newman:  Footlights Faggots and Lesbian Thespians. Okay, so that was a little 
theater group that we had for that campaign. And I— 
Long:  Which campaign?  
Newman:  For the No on 51 campaign.  
Long:  Okay.  
Newman:  And I wrote the script, and we had a little play and changed each 
time we did it. And we did it here and there as a fundraiser thing, 
and that was lots of fun. It was pretty silly.  
Long:  And who were the people who did that with you?  
Newman:  This was the same group of people I listed before.   
Long:  Okay.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And did you have a part of writing that book, It Could Happen to 
You? 
Newman:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. What was the idea that— 
Newman:  That was after we lost the campaign, and we— a group of us 
decided we should write a book about what we did and what 
worked and what didn't. And so I think that we assigned ourselves 
different chapters. I think I'm remembering now. And I did a bunch 
of editing on it at the end, and we published it ourselves. And I 
think I have a box of them somewhere still.  
Long:  Who were the other people who wrote that book with you?  
Newman:  Probably Sally.  
Long:  Sally Sheklow? 
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Long:  Laurie— 
Raiskin:  Laurie  McClain.  
Newman:  Laurie  McClain. That's true, Laurie  McClain. And Sally was in 
Footlight Faggots and Lesbian  Thespians, too. Yeah, of course. And  
I knew Sally from Starflower, and Sally is wonderful for being able 
to write a song about anything and sing it so well. And probably 
Shoshana maybe worked on that, probably Jenna had worked on 
that. That's about the size of the group, I think.  
Raiskin:  And do you want to tell us about Nina?  
Newman:  Nina Robbins.  She was one of those tiny women that I first met 
when I met Starflower. And she was from New York, and her 
family had owned a staple, stapler factory, stapler factory. She 
didn't have any other physical fixing skills except for staplers,  and 
she could just fix them.  We loved Nina, we all loved Nina, and 
Nina got cancer and  she didn't want to— she didn't want an 
allopathic approach to it. She didn't want to see a doctor, and she 
didn't want to take medicines, and she didn't want to have surgery. 
But she tried everything else and it got huge. It was breast cancer, it 
was a huge tumor and, finally, she was dying of it. And she was in 
the Good Samaritan nursing home on Hilyard, I think it is. And she 
didn't want to be alone, she didn't want to be ever alone. And she 
knew she was dying.  
 A large circle of women organized to make shifts and always be 
with her day and night, for I don't know, for at least a couple of 
months. And for many people that was the first time, because 
people were young, Nina was thirty-two maybe. A lot of people 
were still in their twenties  and had not had anyone die that they 
knew. So, there was this fascination of— here is somebody we 
know who's dying, that could be us. But thank God it's not us. And  
also a more, a better desire to be there for her and to help her, 
especially with the people who had been friends with her and 
knew her. We did that and Nina died and we had a memorial, a big 
circle sitting out on the lawn. And we, people divided some of her 
things, and we decided to take— she had journals, and she had 
poetry and bits of poetry that she had written. She had always 
written little bits of poetry and we thought, We'll take these and 
we'll make a book to remember her by. And so we did that project.  
Raiskin:  Did her parents come out to—? 
Newman:  Her parents came out, they took her  back to New York, yeah. She 
wasn't, she didn't feel close to them, she didn't really want them 
there. That was hard.  
Raiskin:  You said you were in another group called Cayenne? 
Newman:  Yeah. Cayenne was great for me, and it was just— it was a 
women's circle kind of group, but for women who were mixed race, 
and that was the first time I really felt, that was the first place, and 
those were the first people, I really felt I could talk about those 
issues with. And so it was wonderfully liberating. It was all 
lesbians and we just loved each other. We just loved being able to 
tell our stories and listen to our stories, and see how different we 
were and everyone— say you're mixed race that can mean 
anything, almost. I mean, there's all these possible mixtures and 
there we were. That was an astounding thing. We made a banner, I  
remember and I probably have it, that we took in a couple of 
marches.  
Raiskin:  How many were in your group?  
Newman:  I think there were probably seven or eight. For a while.  
Raiskin:  What was your experience being in such a predominantly white 
lesbian community?  
Newman:  You know, I didn't really, until I was in Cayenne I kind of put that 
aside a lot and didn't think about it. I didn't consider very much 
how people saw me unless they said, "Oh yeah, we're not all white 
because we have Connie." And then I would remember that. Or one 
time, I was with my lover on the coast in a parking lot, and we 
were moving at about ten miles an hour in this parking lot, and 
someone drove over and hit us. And the police came, and they said, 
and he had a form to fill out and he had to fill out a race box. And 
he said, "What race are you?' And I said, “white?” And he said, 
"No." And I said, “Chicano,” and he said, "I don't know what that 
is." He said, "How about Japanese?" And I said, “No.” It was so 
odd, you know, it was so odd that I had to choose something that 
worked for his form. He had Mexican American is what we got to, 
or maybe we got to Indian, it was one or the other that he had a box 
for. 
Raiskin:  But he wouldn't accept white.   
Newman:  No, he wouldn't and maybe it was because I was really unsure 
about— maybe he picked that up and decided that it was lying. 
Mostly, I didn't run into a lot of racism, I didn't hear a lot of overt 
racism in the lesbian community. And I think that people were very 
conscious that that was not okay, and that they needed to be, it was 
something that people needed to be working on. I think there was a 
consciousness about racism in the lesbian community, and in the 
women's community that was being worked on.  
Raiskin:  In Cayenne did you, was it just social or did you read things?  
Newman:  It was mostly social, it was mostly— and if we had met for years, 
we probably would have gotten to reading things. I think we talked 
about things  that we were reading, but it was more sharing our 
stories, sharing our daily lives. And some people were running into 
racism all the time, and they talked about that. It was good. Jan 
Oliver was in that group. So maybe that's the story.  
Long:  Can you tell us about the relationships that you had, besides the 
ones you've already mentioned? And you mentioned that you have 
children.  
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Long:  Do you want to talk about that?  
Newman:  I don't know. In the '70s I had a three year relationship with a 
woman and then a five year relationship with another woman.  
And, what can I say about that? Those were, in many ways good 
for me. I don't know, what are you looking for here? It's hard— 
Long:  How did you come to have children?  
Newman:  Oh, that's a whole different thing. I decided when I turned thirty  
that, if I was going to have children, I probably should get going on 
it. And, I met someone, a man who was sort of there, too, and we 
decided we would get together and we would have kids, and we 
would be a family, for the kids. Be parents to our children. So we 
did that, and we've been together all these years. The kids are 
grown up now. I had, here's the story about the kids. So I had the 
first one and I assumed that it would be a girl because I expected to 
have a girl, and it wasn't a girl. Somebody said to me, somebody 
made a joke about how the goddess always does that kind of thing 
when you need to learn something. That was, yeah, not super 
helpful. But he was this beautiful little  baby, and I fell in love with 
him, and I did learn whatever the goddess was trying to teach me 
there about loving your little boys, and try, and then having the 
burden of trying to figure out how to make them good men.  
 It's a burden and it's also something that you love to do, and you 
want to do. Then I thought, well, I should have the girl now, and 
also, I don't want my little boy to be an only child so had the 
second one. And that was a boy, too. And at that point, I thought— 
and he was wonderful. At that point I thought, Okay, so I'm done. 
Because also, I don't want to keep just popping out kids in an 
overcrowded world hoping to have a girl eventually. I said, let's  
adopt a girl. S0 we adopted a girl, and she was five and a half, and 
she'd been through horrible stuff. She'd been abused and 
abandoned, and given drugs, and just treated badly in all  the ways 
you can think of. She wasn't in good shape, and at that point, I 
realized I had my hands full for the next eighteen  years or so. And 
so I said, “Okay, that's it.” But, then I got pregnant again. I didn't 
mean to, but I did. And  I had another boy. So yeah, I had those four 
kids.  
Long:  And would— 
Raiskin:  You were busy?  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Long:  Did you get married to this man?  
Newman:  We did, we got married a couple of years after the first one was 
born. About a year and a half later. Partly because of— so that the 
insurance stuff would be clear, partly because of pressure, 
especially from his mother, who was a bit of a pain in the neck 
about it. And partly just— now that the child was real I thought, it 
would be easier for this kid to have— I mean, it's going to be hard 
enough in so many ways to be growing up now, if you have 
parents who are married, that's a little bit easier, that was my 
thinking. Yeah. 
Raiskin:  And how did you identify then? As a lesbian or as bisexual or as 
straight woman or did you not?   
Newman:  Well, I've never identified as a straight woman. And because I went 
through all of the '70s identifying as a lesbian at a time when it was, 
saying bisexual was a bad word. That doesn't— I mean and it also, 
I don't really feel like it describes me, but I know that people see me 
that way. It's maybe the best answer I can give to that. I'm still 
myself.  
Raiskin:  And what did the children understand about your identification?  
Newman:  Shoshana  is their honorary aunt, and she is a strong family factor. 
And she loves them and dotes on them, and buys them wonderful 
things, and they do know that a long time ago we were lovers 
before any of them were born. 
Long:  So are you still married?  
Newman:  Yeah. And it's worked out okay.  
Long:  But you— 
Newman:  I might not answer any more questions.  
Raiskin:  It's so complicated and personal, you know.  
Newman:  It is complicated and personal.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  How do you imagine your future in Eugene? Or 
were you thinking about staying?  
Newman:  The only time that I really thought about leaving— well, maybe 
there were a couple times. But in the '80s, which was when I was  
having my kids, and there was the recession. And suddenly, there 
wasn't any work, and we were— and all I had was the house, so I 
was going to sell the house so we were going to move. I think we 
just had the one baby. Yeah, we had the one baby. And then Tod 
got a job with the 911, answering 911 phones, so then we stayed. 
Other than that, I haven't really thought of leaving because— and 
that was a surprise to me. I was surprised about that for a long time 
that I didn't think of myself as someone who would —I mean, I 
wasn't the one who thought we should necessarily move to Eugene. 
I'm not the one who came and played my guitar, and watched the 
trains come in, I just came along with the group and then they all 
left. And here I am, and not only that, I'm on the same corner, I've 
been on the same corner.  
 But, it's a great place, I'm always glad to come back when I've been 
gone and, I'm glad I'm here. And it's also a long unfolding story 
this town, and this community, and I like to read stories all the way 
through. That's part of it too.  
Raiskin:  If you  can imagine a young person watching this video and hearing 
about your life from Sherwood Forest all the way up, well from the 
desert to all the way up, is there some advice you would give? Or 
some wisdom that you would want to tell younger person?  
Newman:  Yes. And that is that, if you're a young person, but also if you're not 
a young person, that you are gorgeous. That when I think about the 
'70s, and when I was in my twenties, we were beautiful, and we 
had wonderful chances to make our lives, to make decisions that  
would reverberate through our lives, and that is a privilege, and 
just a great thing. So, to be aware of that while you have it, that's 
harder. To be aware that you are beautiful, and that this is a time 
that will never come again, I think it's hard to know that in your 
twenties  because, and when you're younger, because you think this 
is— I just got here to this world, and this is what it was. But, 
actually you're building it right now;  you are part of what it is.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Long:  Yeah, thank you.  
Newman:  You're welcome.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  