 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Kate Thompson on September 7, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio, in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin, of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Kate, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the University to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Thompson:  Yes, I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much. So let's just begin with the basic question. 
Can you please tell  us when and where you were born, where you 
grew up, and something about your early background?  
Thompson:  I was born on July 2, 1953, in Los Angeles, California, in Cedars of 
Lebanon Hospital, which I mention, because it is now the 
international headquarters for the Church of Scientology. But I 
grew up around L.A., mostly in Altadena, California. Altadena is 
an interesting place because it is one of the few communities where 
there is no covenant against people of color, so it's a highly-
integrated community, and it's surrounded by a lot of white 
neighborhoods. It's also relatively, sort of, low-income, but also an 
interesting neighborhood because there were a lot of people who 
worked at JPL there, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, so a lot of, sort 
of, science geeky types around, which factored in for me.  
Raiskin:  What did your parents do there?  
Thompson:  I was pretty much raised by my mom. My father worked at 
Northrop Grumman for a while, and then he left, and I was— so 
we were raised, there were three of us, we were raised by my mom. 
She was a Kelly Girl is what they called it then, temporary 
secretary, for the most part.  
Raiskin:  You had brothers and sisters?  
Thompson:  I have one brother. I had one brother. He died many, many years 
ago, and I have a sister, yeah. My mother died when I was twenty-
three. My mother was ill much of my life, I guess I'd say, and in  
and out of the hospital, so I left home when I was seventeen. I was 
the oldest.  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament like? What kind of kid were you?  
Thompson:  I was a really bossy kid from all reports. I always had a little gang 
around me. I was always building stuff. I built tree houses, I built— 
I mean, I really feel for kids these days, because we were so free-
range. We were basically told, "Go out, and I don't want to see you 
again until dark." I built go-carts. I was given a chemistry set when 
I was about eight, which just thrilled me to no end. I blew up my 
bedroom twice, and my joke about it is, my mother actually started 
dating the fireman who came, at one point. I was a complete geeky 
little kid.  
 Then when I hit high school, times were very turbulent then, and it 
was like 1966, '67, '68, '69. The high school I went to, the Pasadena 
Unified High Schools were ordered to integrate in 1970, and I was 
to graduate in 1971. I went to the minority high school. It was 
probably 60  percent  black and Hispanic and 30  percent  white. 
Nobody wanted to be integrated, which sounds terrible, but it's 
really true. There were a lot of riots, and the school kind of shut 
down, so my schooling was really hit and miss for that.  
 Then in my senior year, in 1971, there was a major earthquake in 
Los Angeles, and my high school was  severely damaged. That 
earthquake was in February 1971, and a friend and I looked at each 
other and said, "You know, there's really no reason for us to be  
here," and we stuck out our thumbs and hitchhiked up to 
Springfield. Actually, Springfield is where,  I think I had like twenty 
bucks, and he had a sister who lived in Springfield, and so we 
stayed with her.  
 Now she happened to be a woman named Nancy Van Brasch, who 
is the Nancy of Nancy's Yogurt, and at the time, her boyfriend was 
Chuck Kesey, so we kind of landed in kind of the fountain of 
hippiedom, kind of completely. I had no idea. But it was really 
disappointing to me because, by 1971, I think everybody was 
drinking gin and tonics and inhaling helium to make their voices 
sound funny, and nitrous oxide, and it was not exactly the peace, 
love, kind of, rainbow stuff I'd thought about.  
 I went to work at the Springfield Creamery. They had yogurt, plain 
yogurt, and then these little cups on top, and I think it was, for 
seventy  cents an hour, I would put fruit in the little cups on top. I 
worked in the cannery there, and sometime toward the end of that 
year, '71, I had turned eighteen, and I started working at the 
Odyssey Coffee Shop, which was on Willamette Street, and run by 
Bill and Cindy Wooten, who are, I think, kind of legendary  figures 
here at that point. I worked there as a counter girl for ninety  cents 
an hour, and any sandwich I wanted, except for  the roast beef, 
which was expensive. In the course of working there, I lived a 
couple of different places, just crashed around. I was thinking 
about going on up to Seattle. I just didn't really know what to do,  
and my mom was in the hospital again, so I was thinking about 
going back to L.A.  
 Then I met this guy named Sean  O'Reilly, and we struck up a great 
friendship and a relationship. He lived in a house that is no longer 
there, that is on the other side of the railroad tracks from the 
Growers Market, where I think there's a condo there now. It was 
called the Press House. He had grown up in a tent on the Feather 
River Project. He has great stories and nothing to do with this, but 
somebody should interview him at some point. His parents were 
Communists, and they'd been kind of chased all over hell and gone, 
but he had learned how to print because they printed flyers. He 
had a little AB Dick, so the two of us would print flyers for anti-
war— there  was a huge anti-draft thing going on at the time. We 
did a lot of printing, licit and illicit, to help keep people out of the 
war.  
Raiskin:  What would be illicit?  
Thompson:  Probably not going to go into that too much, but to help people get 
out of the country— 
Raiskin:  Oh, I see.  
Long:  Oh, mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Thompson:  —for the most part.  
Long:  Can we go back for a second?   
Thompson:  Yeah.  
Long:  What was the AB, AB?  
Thompson:  An AB Dick is a— 
Long:  AB Dick.  
Thompson:  —type of printing press. I'm sorry, I should've— it’s a klutzy little 
press. It's a vertical press versus— it’s an offset press. Yeah.  
Long:  Okay.  
Thompson:  Sean  was also a motorcycle enthusiast. He had a bunch of old 
vintage bikes. One day, he and his buddies went off for a ride, and 
we had a big job to do, and I didn't really know how to run the 
press. But he said, "Oh, you just— you’ve  watched me do it. Just do 
it." It took me like twenty-four  hours to figure out what order the 
rollers went in. I had ink all over myself, but I got the job done. I 
figured out how to do it.  From then on, we did all the printing 
together. I became a printer and a stripper, which is part of 
printing, or was a part of printing then, where you prepare 
negatives to burn the plates that you put on the offset press. All 
very old technology, now, very seldom used.  
 Sean  and I ran the press, and at one point, the Feds came after him, 
and we had to move elsewhere, so we started putting the press in 
trucks and moving it around. We lived up North until early '72, 
probably, and I just wasn't kind of living I wanted to do. So I said,  
"Well, I'm going to come back, and we'll set up the press in some 
other building."  
 The first building we set it up in, or I set it up in, was underneath 
Starflower. By that time, we had bought another press, a multilith. I 
don't remember the number of it, but it was another printing press. 
We had become a union shop, which was a lot easier then than it is 
now. But the problem with being underneath Starflower was, every 
time anybody walked over us, the grain would filter down into the 
printing presses. It wasn't going to work out very well.  
 Sean  eventually did get arrested and sent down to the Bay Area for 
induction, which he failed spectacularly, but it took him away. 
While he was gone, I ran the press. At that point, we decided to 
move it to Growers Market, which was just kind of an amazing 
thing to do because we had this huge Harris press by this time. It's 
an offset press, and we had to cut a hole in the ceiling and hook a 
winch up to it, and then  we hooked that winch up to a power 
wagon and backed it down toward the railroad tracks in order to 
pull the printing press up there. I say all this because, while he was 
gone, I took care of his motorcycles, and he had actually built me a 
motorcycle.  
 I want to go back to high school, a little bit because my first gay 
experience was when I— I had a best friend, Candy Vasquez, and I 
tried desperately to get her to kiss me under the rubric that Janis 
Joplin had been bisexual. The net result of these things that I did 
was usually that we would both get totally shit-faced and then  
never speak of it again, so I was pretty unsuccessful in that. I knew 
I had tendencies, but I wasn't really following them up.  
 But while Sean  was gone, I was riding his bikes around, and I 
guess— People started coming up and inviting me to dances, and I 
was like, "Really?  All girls? I don’t know." That was kind of it. Sean  
came back, and we split up, and I took one of the motorcycles and 
moved into a house at Fourth  and Adams.  
Long:  Fourth  and Adams?  
Thompson:  It must be a famous corner. I actually, I got here a little early, so I 
drove around. That neighborhood hasn't changed at all.  
Long:  Starflower was down near there at Fourth  and Lawrence, wasn't it?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Thompson:  Yeah, That's right.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Thompson:  Yeah, that's right.  
Raiskin:  And Mother Kali's was there at that time.  
Thompson:  Was it? It's like over on Blair or something, I can't— 
Raiskin:  Fourth  and Blair.  
Thompson:  Yeah, yeah. Yeah, something.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.   
Thompson:  I find I have a hard time with the geographic memory, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Can I just ask you when you started saying yes and going to these 
dances and getting involved with women, how was that for you?  
Thompson:  It felt pretty natural. The first woman I ever slept with, I actually 
just picked up at the Riviera Room.  
Raiskin:  At the bar there? Yeah.  
Thompson:  Because that was kind of, yeah— Then my first  kind of girlfriend 
was Connie Newman, who now, I don't think, identifies as gay 
anymore. But I think I said this in my thing, the thing that I 
remember most about that time is what insane sluts we were. I 
mean, if you whiteboarded it all out, everybody was in high-
mating morph, is all I can say. Everybody slept with everybody 
then, and sometimes you run into somebody now, in our later 
years, and we're like, after a while you're [makes sound effects].  I 
don't know where I was going.  
Raiskin:  Asking you about when you first got involved with women, 
sexually, how was that for you?  
Thompson:  It was kind of natural. It didn't feel like— it felt liberating and 
wonderful. There were aspects of the lesbian community that really 
left me befuddled, I guess. One of them was sort of this high-level, 
or an  expectation of, kind of, “woo-woo,” and I am one of the least 
“woo-woo” people you've ever met. It's just not something— so I 
saw myself as a printer. I rebuilt my cars. I—  
Raiskin:  You're a scientist.  
Thompson:  Yeah, just that sort of kind of aspect of it. I didn't really feel a part 
of the community in that. I felt like there was probably other 
women more like me that were— I'm not saying I was like super 
butch, particularly. I came from probably— I hadn't gone to 
college. I didn't come from particularly  secure circumstances, so I 
think that I sort of held myself apart from that, a lot, to a certain 
extent. But that was, I mean, we still had a lot of fun. One of the 
reasons I say that is you brought up Mother Kali's, and I think I sort 
of lumped Mother Kali's in with the whole, you know, kind of 
thing [gestures]— 
Long:  Kind of this, like, spirituality, in a way?  
Thompson:  Yes, spirituality and that. It wasn't that I— Did I judge people? 
Probably, a little bit. But I mostly just didn't feel really connected  to 
it.  
Raiskin:  But not alienated enough to not participate.  
Thompson:  To not sleep with those people, no, uh-uh [negative]. 
Raiskin:  Can you describe the— 
Thompson:  We can say all this now that we're old.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe the Riviera Room?  
Thompson:  Oh my god, the Riv Room. The Riv. Yeah, I had this old British 
motorcycle that ran about 20 percent  of the time, and we'd go down  
to the Riv. The Riv was, this was how I remember it, was like really 
dark, red flocked velvet wallpaper. It had these backlit posters of 
the Riviera that were kind of cheesy and all washed out, so it 
looked very Cinemascope '50s, sort of. They had the wine bottles 
and grapes, I think, hanging from the ceiling. It was the cheesiest 
place in the world. Cheesy without irony. Cheesy simply because it 
had grown into its cheesiness. It had a tiny little dance floor, and I 
think disco was just sort of starting to come around. It'd be like '74, 
'73, '74.  
 All the girls, they'd dance, and there would always be, sitting at the 
bar, all of, and I think of these as farm women. I mean, just these 
powerful, diesel dyke women sitting at the bar just nursing, like 
totally not the least bit happy to see all these like little puppies. But 
it was fun. It was fun. You know, it was a time of hard-drinking. 
Sometimes I would get home, and I would look out in the front 
yard, and the motorcycle would be on its side, and I had somehow 
gotten from the Riv Room back to Fourth  and Adams on it. I had 
no idea how, so it's one of those things. How do you live through 
those days? I don't know.  
Raiskin:  It's interesting. I've never thought of the generation of lesbians that 
were living here before this influx of puppies.  
Thompson:  They were, and I know because that was actually one of the ones 
that I picked up. It was definitely a different generation, and it was, 
I think, women who worked out in Junction City and out in, you  
know, and came in on a Saturday night and did some hard 
drinking. That was my sense of it.  
Long:  What was the woman of that group that you got together with, 
what was she like?  
Thompson:  Oh, well, I'm really sort of ashamed that I don't remember her 
name. I think I had a goal in mind, and I sort of accomplished that 
goal. She was actually taller than I am, and I'm pretty tall. We had  a 
lot of fun, and we saw each other a couple of times. She started 
thinking it was going to be a relationship, and that had not been my 
goal at all. My goal had basically been to lose my lesbian virginity, 
so I don't remember how it ended.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. But you got involved with somebody in 
the community?  
Thompson:  Yeah, I got involved with Connie Newman, and she worked at 
Starflower, and then also with Paula Vaden, and a woman named 
Reddick  who, if you haven't interviewed, you probably should. She 
was here at that time, and she's pretty legendary.  
Long:  What's her name?  
Thompson:  Red. Shelley Reddick, but she goes by Reddick.  
Raiskin:  So what were you doing for— you’re  dancing at the Riv Room, you 
knew people at Starflower, and you  were printing.  
Thompson:  Printing, yeah.   
Raiskin:  How was that? How was that going?  
Thompson:  Well, Sean  got back from Oakland, and by that time, two other 
women had come into the print shop. I'd invited a woman named 
Jane Gibbons, and one of the reasons  was, Jane really was a printer. 
She had worked as a printer. She also had money, and we were 
having a hard time with the old presses. These presses we were 
using were really old, so she offered to buy a new Hamada, which 
is an offset press, brand new, which really would've upped our 
game, and it did. She came into the press and Sean— and to this 
day, I have regrets about how that was handled. It became kind of 
this women's print shop, and he was kind of frozen out, and he had 
to leave. The reason I feel  regrets about it is because Sean  was very 
working-class, and there was a lot of class crap that happened at 
that time. He ended up actually getting arrested and going to 
prison up at— What's the one for— OSU, I think. Younger 
offender. OCU up in Corvallis  or something like that.  But anyway, 
and then a couple of other women came in. Jane was straight, and 
another woman who came in was straight. A woman named 
Kendra came in, who's gay— 
Long:  Morrigan?  
Thompson:  Yeah, I think so, yeah. Not for long. Reddick came in. I would teach 
these women how to print, and sometimes it would work, and 
sometimes it wouldn't. We started getting renowned for being a 
women's press, and there weren't that many. There were  a couple 
of others. There was Maud Gonne Press  in Berkeley, and another  
press in Berkeley as well, whose name I forget. One of the things 
that we did early on in the running of Jackrabbit was we organized 
a women in print conference, and people came from all over the 
West Coast, and it was really kind of an amazing time because 
there were all these women's print shops doing printing stuff for 
women. We'd  printed a book called What Lesbians Do, which I have 
a very funny story to tell you about printing that at the same time 
that we had a fire inspection. Awkward!  
Raiskin:  Tell that story.  
Thompson:  It was basically what lesbians do, and by that, I mean sexually, and 
I can't remember the two women who did it, but it was an 
illustrator and a poet. It was mostly illustrations, fairly explicit. The 
cover itself wasn't that explicit, but it had what we call full 
coverage, which was, we had to lay a lot of ink on it. When you 
have to lay a lot of ink, you had to kind of put them in very small 
stacks all over the print shop so they would dry before you ran 
them through  the press again. We had these things all over the 
print shop. Basically, a huge vulva everywhere, and we get a knock 
on the door, and there's like twelve  firemen lined up behind it. First 
of all, we were doing so many things wrong. I mean, we had like 
open gas cans and, it was like— print shops are terribly flammable 
places. We're on the upstairs of a wood warehouse, I mean, it 
was— so we tried to talk them into coming back  later, but it was a 
no go. They all walk through, and not one of them said a word. 
They walked through the print shop, and they walked all the way  
back into the camera room. It was like on every surface and 
everywhere, like pinned up on the walls. Like vulva, vulva, vulva, 
vulva. They walked back, and they all filed out, and the guy said, 
"We'll be sending you a report." And I know that that is a legendary 
story in that firehouse today.  
Long:  That's funny.  
Thompson:  We printed poetry books for like Olga Broumas and Adrienne Rich 
and other poets, whose names I forget. Printed a lot of stuff for the 
Eritrean Student Union, for the Iranian students. We did a lot of 
stuff because we were a union shop for the University, some of the 
University's radical sociologists, I guess you'd say.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Can you tell us how you came up with the 
name Jackrabbit?  
Thompson:  I have no idea, to be really honest. We named it before it was a 
women's press, and we had been Vision Works before that. The 
guy who had been part of the press, sort of in and out before, then 
left and wanted to take the name with him for something else. We 
named it Jackrabbit. I don't know why. There's no great story 
behind it. Then I became “Kate Jackrabbit” because that's what 
people would call me. I mean, it's not like it was so they could take 
a name or anything. People would call  me Kate Jackrabbit, and I 
would do illustrations for Women's Press  and things, and sign it 
Kate. At first, I'd just sign it Kate, and then Jackrabbit, as in the 
Press. But then it just morphed into Kate Jackrabbit.   
Long:  So you became known as a press for feminist publications?  
Thompson:  Everything, pretty much. We were still doing a lot of anti-war stuff. 
A lot of feminist, sort of new feminist groups were starting and did 
a lot of printing for them. Women in the trades stuff was coming 
along. We did some printing for the city.  
Long:  My recollection is that you also printed WomenSpirit  magazine.  
Thompson:  We did. Right, yeah.  
Long:  Uh-huh [affirmative], uh-huh [affirmative]. 
Thompson:  With— 
Long:  Did Jean and Ruth Mountaingrove come up and— 
Thompson:  They did.  
Long:  —talk with you?  
Thompson:  Yeah, I remember, yeah, we were— 
Long:  Oh, can you describe that?  
Thompson:  I would like to say I remember them. I mean, I remember exactly 
what they looked like. To get back to that “woo-woo” thing, I think 
I dismissed them a little bit because they were very “woo-woo.” I 
remember one time, somebody and I, I was riding my bike down to 
Mexico, which was another story, but we stopped in Mountain 
Grove, which is where they were— Wolf Creek, Wolf Creek,  
right— and stayed overnight at their place, and it was just too 
much for me.  
Long:  At Rootworks.  
Thompson:  Huh?  
Long:  At Rootworks.  
Thompson:  Was that where it was?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Thompson:  It was like Wolf Creek, it was— 
Long:  Well, they might have been— What year was that?  
Thompson:  That's '73, maybe? So— 
Long:  Yeah, by then, I believe they were at Rootworks. Before that, they 
were at Golden.  
Thompson:  Yeah.  
Long:  They started publishing WomenSpirit  when they were at Golden.  
Thompson:  Yeah, yeah.  
Long:  But then they moved to their own land called Rootworks.  
Thompson:  Okay, okay.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].   
Thompson:  That must've been it, then.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Thompson:  Yeah. I remember that— I'm trying to remember whether it was on 
the way there or on the way back. I can't, so— 
Raiskin:  It was too much for you, meaning?  
Thompson:  I think my judgment of women who came from, sort of this, you 
know, "We're all women. We're all beautiful," was that— I don't 
know even how to say this. I just felt like they were kind of marks. I 
just felt like they're not in the real world. They're in some other 
thing. Now I have great friends who subscribe to all kinds of wacko 
things. I have no judgment. I really don't. But I think it's great, 
whatever kind of faith brings you comfort. But at that point, I think 
I was much more judgmental.  
 Then the other thing I was really judgmental of at that point, and 
this wasn't Ruth and Jean, was that there was starting to be this 
kind of politically correct thing that happened, where I called it 
“Your class background divided by the worth of your stereo” 
would net you your net worth, your net political worth in the 
community. I felt like there were women who fetishized poverty 
and thought it was very romantic and everything. I grew up fairly 
insecure. I see what women raising kids alone is, and it's not pretty. 
It's a really hard row to hoe. I saw women, kind of taking stuff on, 
that I thought, "They don't know." They don't—  
Raiskin:  Were they mostly middle-class women who were— 
Thompson:  I guess, yeah. Yeah. I think that I also— I'm coming off like a real 
asshole. I think that that too was like— I think that we sort of held 
ourselves, like, "We'll print for everybody. We don't care." But I 
think that all of those currents were going on in the print shop as 
we printed. We sort of saw ourselves as sort of the midwives of the 
literature, or whatever it was.  
Raiskin:  Did you consider yourself a literary person?  
Thompson:  No. Mm-mm [negative]. No, no. I considered myself more like a 
mechanic, I guess, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did you read the things that you were printing?  
Thompson:  Yeah, all the time! Yeah, and you know, we've printed a lot of like, 
Marxist rantings and the sociology stuff just. I mean,  we would 
laugh about it. I don't even want to tell you what we would call 
some of the poetry we read, but we had a name for it, which was, 
"My cunt is like a Cyprus  garden" poetry. All of the women who 
worked there were, sort of, of a like mind, and so we would kind of 
make fun of people as we printed the stuff, but we printed it, and 
we did a good job.  
Long:  What were the finances like at a press? How did that work? 
Thompson:  Well, a lot of us worked second jobs. Sometimes we could make it 
all work, and sometimes we couldn't. I worked as a cab driver 
because Terminal Taxi was right next to— I think there's a  
restaurant there now. It was right next to Growers Market,  so I 
would work as a cab driver sometimes and as a janitor. Then, yeah, 
Jane helped support the press, so that was really good. We had, sort 
of, some regular jobs, regular university jobs that we would do. 
Then elections were great because we were a union  shop, so we 
would print a lot of that kind of stuff.  
 But yeah, we read it all. We printed stuff for the Weather 
Underground. We printed stuff. We printed things that we weren't 
supposed to know who brought it in the door. We printed poetry. I 
designed and printed, with some other people, a comic book or 
graphic novel called A Few Easy Questions, which was all about 
what to do if the grand jury calls you, which was starting to 
happen. I brought some of the galleys. I don't actually have a copy 
of it anymore.  
 I think the coolest thing about Jackrabbit and about being there was 
that everything came over the transom. Just the whole gamut of 
you know, from women herbalists and midwives and kung fu, you 
know, the kung fu girls? You name it, we did it, and yeah, we did 
it. When you're standing at a press, you read the stuff, if nothing 
else, to see, to make sure it looks okay, and also, because it can be 
really boring sitting at a press, and then you get to, you know, you 
read it.  
Raiskin:  Did you print Midwifery Today? 
Thompson:  No, I don't think we did that, no.   
Raiskin:  How did Adrienne Rich find Jackrabbit Press?  
Thompson:  You know, I don't know how she found it. It wasn't her. We never 
dealt with her. We dealt with somebody else, but years later, I 
actually was in Nicaragua with her and Lucy Lippard, I don't know 
if you know who Lucy Lippard is, she was like a— We got invited 
down as feminist artists to speak to the artists' union that was 
forming in Nicaragua. This was in '83, and I said, "Do you 
remember  me? I printed your book," and she was like, "Oh, yeah! I 
heard that a print shop out in Oregon printed it." I don't even think 
she really knew that it was. I don't know how— I mean, I read a lot 
of poetry now and love it. At the time, I didn't know whether she 
was known. I didn't know any of these people, whether they were 
just walking in because they had some forms they wanted to print 
or whether they were famous or anything. Honestly, when I think 
back on it now, we were probably not the print shop that should've 
printed these things. I mean, we were a really low-level print shop. 
The biggest thing we could print was seventeen  by twenty-two, 
which is about yea big. If you're printing a book, you want to print 
it on big web presses, usually. But I think  people just wanted to 
support us.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. How long did Jackrabbit last?  
Thompson:  I left in early '76 and went up to Seattle. They were going to run it, 
Reddick and Jane, and I don't know who else was still there, maybe 
Kendra. I worked, I just found work as a printer, just in straight 
shops. About a year later, Jane called me and asked me if I wanted  
to buy the presses back because they'd paid me a little bit for my 
stuff if I wanted to buy them back, so I said, "Okay." I bought them 
back and started a print shop in Seattle called Store Front Press, 
another women's press. I did that from late '76 or early '77 till like 
1980, I think?  
Raiskin:  What did you print there?  
Thompson:  Again, everything, and we printed a lot of, I'd gotten really 
involved in anti-racist work. I was working with a lot of groups, 
both out of the International District Community, which is mostly 
Asian, and KDP, which is a Filipino rights organization. The Boldt 
Decision was happening then. We were doing a lot of  Native rights 
stuff. The Boldt Decision had happened, but there was a lot of 
Native organizing around fishing rights. We were doing a lot less 
sort of women-oriented and a lot more sort of straight lefty printing 
at that point. We also did a lot of printing for— We started getting 
people walking in. I got known as a— Back then, if you were a 
designer, and this is before computers, right? If you were a 
designer back then, and you wanted to create something fairly 
complex, you had to know a good stripper, and I was known as a 
good stripper in that  I could figure out how to put the layers of 
negatives together to create what a  designer wanted to create. We 
started getting these young designers coming in, and I would work 
with them to create what they wanted. I was really jazzed by that. 
In, I think, late '79 or early '80, but we're getting ahead of Eugene.  
Raiskin:  Well, did you stay in touch with people in Eugene once you left?   
Thompson:  A little bit. I stayed in touch with Reddick a lot, but my girlfriend in 
Eugene, Liz Hoadley, who's now in Berkeley, she went by Betsy 
then, she and I moved up to Seattle together, and we basically 
stayed together to move. I had an old '57 Chevy Nomad station 
wagon, and we tied mattresses. It was like we looked like Okies. 
Went up to Seattle, and we broke up, literally, a week after we got 
there. She's a dear friend today.  
 A lot of sort of what I was leaving behind came with me, but we 
had some great— so a lot of the people, Florence Buckley, I don't 
know if that name's  come up, a lot of people were moving out of 
Eugene right then, and for reasons, they wanted to go and do more 
hardcore organizing. Left organizing. I think at that point, the 
lesbian community was sort of morphing out of the, you know, "I 
am lesbian, hear  me roar!" and into integration into sort of straight 
politics or regular left politics. At least— 
Raiskin:  Here in Eugene, a lot of the energy went into the anti-gay 
measures. It was still gay-focused, but with a different kind of 
protesting and organizing.  
Thompson:  Yeah, so I stayed a little bit in touch with just hearing about 
Shoshanna  through Connie and through Jane, who were friends of 
hers. You know, I would come back occasionally, but sometimes 
when you come back to places, you know, you've left them, and I 
had left it, by that time.  
Raiskin:  Did you stay with printing throughout the rest of your career?   
Thompson:  No, I did not. In '80, I think, I decided I really wanted out of 
printing, partly because I would hold up a rag with benzene in it 
and go, "Is this water or benzene?" and I thought, Well, I probably 
better get out of this before my brain is completely gone.  One of the 
women that I'd hired in my print shop developed brain cancer and 
died at the age of forty. I had been printing for these designers, and 
this one guy I'd been printing with really encouraged me to— I did 
a lot of posters and things, and I was terrible. I was just horrible, 
and he encouraged me to get some training as a designer. I started 
taking classes, night classes, in design for one semester and I met 
another person in one of these classes who said, "Why don't you 
come? We need help on this music magazine." I went, and I did 
paste-up, and a week later, I was Assistant Art Director, which 
meant I made $1.10 an hour or something. But as it turned out, the 
music magazine was The Rocket, and it was at the very beginning of 
the Seattle music scene, so The Rocket  was extraordinarily 
influential in the bands and stuff. My design, I was kind of a cookie 
designer, but it  got noticed.  
 Then I worked a couple of other straight design jobs and then in 
'89, a friend who I'd actually printed with early on, was in New 
York at The Village Voice, and called me up and said, "Come to The 
Village Voice. I need an art director." One  of the reasons I went there, 
to backtrack back, is that in 1977, right after I started the second 
print shop, I bought an Apple IIe. I was the first person to ever 
have a computer, and it came with a little book that said, "How to 
Program Your New Computer," because there was no operating  
system yet, so I taught myself how to program it. One of my jobs at 
The Voice  was to basically drag the editorial staff, kicking and 
screaming, into the computer age, because they had still been doing 
hot type up to that point. So I worked there, and I did that. I got 
offered another job in New York, at a couple of mainstream mags, 
and I worked there.  
Raiskin:  What was your experience in the lesbian scene in New York?  
Thompson:  It was fun. I had a girlfriend there that I just think of as my New 
York girlfriend. She worked at The Voice  as well, and she was big 
into softball, she was like a softball— so we really got into the 
whole softball scene, and gay games happened in New York  when I 
was there. That was a big deal. There were a lot of clubs. It was a 
lot of fun. A lot of dancing and— 
Raiskin:  What year is that?  
Thompson:  '90, '91, '92, and '93, and part of '94.  
Raiskin:  And was the AIDS epidemic, did it impact you at all?  
Thompson:  Yes, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I, yeah. Yeah, two men I worked with at The 
Voice  both died in the time I was there. I first knew about it in like— 
a boyfriend I'd had in high school was in the Bay Area and was 
gay. We'd stayed in touch a little bit, and he  was dancing at some 
club. I ran into him in like, I think '76 or '77, down in the Castro, 
and he looked like shit. There were signs, posters on windows, 
saying that they thought a gay cancer— if you thought you knew  
anyone who had had gay cancer because still, they thought it was 
poppers. Remember those? I mean they— 
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Thompson:  And Gary, I remember thinking, "Man!" You know? Then Gary 
died, probably a year later. That was my first inkling that 
something was up, and then of course, as we all know. So, yeah. It 
was disastrous.  
Raiskin:  Because ACT UP was very, very— 
Thompson:  Yeah. ACT UP was— 
Raiskin:  —influential  right then— 
Thompson:  Yeah, yeah. I went to, in fact, when Bill Clinton was elected, I was 
at an ACT UP party to celebrate that. Was it? Yeah, it was one. 
Yeah, so yeah, it was huge. It was a huge deal then. I brought, 
actually, a couple of The Voice  covers I did, because I got  all the 
queer covers, and every queer cover I got, it would be this huge 
fight about showing a woman on it. So I always had to come up 
with a woman that could be mistaken for a gay man.  
Raiskin:  Why was it like that? Why couldn't there be a woman on it?  
Thompson:  Because— Oh, why, sexism, maybe? But the common belief then 
among the editorial powers that be, was that men would get the 
paper, but women wouldn't, that women would buy it, regardless 
of who was on it, but men couldn't see themselves in a lesbian.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. It's like Saturday morning cartoons.  
Thompson:  Yeah, sort of, yeah.  
Raiskin:  What brought you back West?  
Thompson:  I had a house here, and I had been offered a really good job in New 
York, and so I decided, Well, I'm just going to sell the house and 
move back to New York.  But while I was here, so I came back here, 
and I took a job as the art director for the Seattle Weekly  while I 
was— Just to bide my time. In the course of that, my relationship, 
the woman I'd been seeing in New York, took up with someone 
else. I decided, "Well, I can stay longer. It's not a big—" It was a 
huge deal, but not that big a deal.  
 I got offered a job because I'd been working with computers and 
the kind of geek thing. I got a call  from this person I knew saying, 
"You know all these chat  rooms that exist now, and stuff like that? 
Well, there's this thing like the Internet, and we're looking right 
now. Engineers are designing it, and that's not going to work for 
us. We hear you know something about computers. Can you come 
out?" I went out to Bellevue and interviewed with Paul Allen, and I 
got offered a job as a creative director at Starwave, was what it was 
called, and I designed and built almost all of the major sports sites. 
This  is a bizarre  trajectory. Trust me, I know! So I did NBA, Major 
League Baseball, NFL Draft, and NASCAR, my personal favorite, 
and then— 
Raiskin:  What did you do with them? What did you do?   
Thompson:  I built them. I built the sites with engineers, and I taught myself 
how to code HTML, but mostly because I had a design sense. I 
didn't look like— I mean, you have to remember what the Internet 
looked back in like 1994, you know? It looked pretty bad, and the 
way that HTML code worked was very crude, and there was very 
little you could do with it, and everything you could do was 
basically a hack. Basically, we figured out how to hack and make 
things. In the course of that, we figured out some of the things that 
have gone into the W2 and the people that actually set the 
standards for the code, which of course, now is wonderful and will 
continue to evolve.  
 But then, Starwave got bought by Disney, so suddenly I was a 
creative director at Disney. Disney was also in the process of 
buying ABC, so then I got asked to become the creative director for 
ABC News Online, which would be one of the first broadcast 
entities to go with the Internet and with an online presence. I 
moved back to New York, and by that time, I was in a relationship 
with a woman I'm still in a relations hip with today, my partner. We 
both moved back there. She was the general manager, and I was the 
creative director, and then our boss was the Grand Poobah, so it 
was run by three women in the early days, which was really great, 
and then, of course, men discovered that there was value in it, 
which I always think was like, "You gave Oklahoma to the Indians, 
and then you found oil." Oops! That's the trajectory.  
Raiskin:  And then you came back West again?   
Thompson:  Yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Was that to retire, or another job?  
Thompson:  No, in 2000, I had— Living in New York City, unless you're 
extraordinarily wealthy or very, very young is, and I don't know if 
anybody's— it’s a tough place to live. It's a wonderful, exciting 
place to live, but it's also— I was neither of those by that point. We 
both really wanted to kind of come back. We went on a vacation 
and discussed it, and I came back, and I went to Katherine, my 
boss, and I said, "I'm going to quit." She said, "You can't quit 
because I'm quitting," which was huge because, yeah. Katherine 
Dillon has won a million Emmys. She's great. She and I formed a 
partnership business, and until 2012, we were just a small design 
firm and we did digital design for like CNN and a lot of media 
stuff.  
Raiskin:  And you could do that anywhere? Yeah.  
Thompson:  Exactly. On the Internet, nobody knows who you are. She lives in 
New York, so she was the catcher and I was the effector.  
Raiskin:  And where do you live now?  
Thompson:  I live on Vashon Island.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that?  
Thompson:  Yes. When I met Mary, we actually met in Seattle in '94 when I 
came back, and she lived in this little shack on the water, like this  
crappy little shack. I had this house still, which I didn't sell, in 
Columbia City in Seattle. But staying at her place, it was tiny, and 
whenever it rained, the roof leaked. But she loved living on the 
water. She moved into my house, but we decided we really needed 
a place that was both our places rather than— she really wanted to 
live on the water. We've both been incredibly fortunate financially, 
but not that fortunate. Not Seattle waterfront fortunate, so we 
started looking on Vashon, which was a lot cheaper then because 
people hadn't really discovered it. We found this place on Fern 
Cove, this beautiful little cove. Mary is a scientist and a writer, and 
she's written books that are almost primarily to do with water, and 
they're making a documentary of one of her books right now, 
which is really cool.  
Raiskin:  What's the book?  
Thompson:  The book is called An American River. She grew up in New Jersey 
on the Passaic River, which starts out as this pristine, beautiful kind 
of wooded place, and it ends up as the second-largest Super Fund 
site in the country. It's a good book. It's a great read!  
Raiskin:  Who's making the documentary?  
Thompson:  I can't— The guy's name is Scott somebody, and he does things for 
PBS, so right now, she'll be back there. She's leaving Sunday, and 
they're shooting. Like you shoot something, and then you take it 
around to  all of the money people, I guess, so that's what they're 
doing.   
Raiskin:  And are you retired?  
Thompson:  I am now. I retired in 2012. One of my big clients was the Ford 
Foundation, so I kept them and a couple of other clients I liked a 
lot, and decided  that my giveback would be doing digital media for 
non-profits who couldn't afford it, so that's my giveback now. Then 
I've been doing art, and last year, I did this really cool thing, which 
was I got asked to be the artist-in-residence at the engineered 
biology department at the University of Washington, which was so 
cool. Also frightening. But it's the people, I mean they're trying to 
figure out how to make pesticide-less crops and things like that. All 
their hearts are totally in the right place, and then the University 
sells their stuff to Monsanto. I just got asked to like hang out with 
them for a couple of quarters and do a piece of art and give lectures 
to the— 
Raiskin:  What kind of art?  
Thompson:  I've been doing these little machines. I've been  doing two things. 
Okay, one of the things I've been doing is painting older lesbians, 
and I just had a show of thirty-five paintings— I can show you 
some— of portraits of older lesbians, because I was walking 
through the Met in New York one day, and I was  walking through 
some hall, and it was just like painting after painting after painting 
of some old white guy you didn't know who it was, and I thought, 
"Wouldn't it be cool to see like a hallway?" I mean, it's like, you 
didn't have to know who they were or anything. It was up at the  
Vashon Center for the Arts during June. It was really cool, and then 
I just gave every painting to the person it was of.  
 But the other stuff I've been doing is my geek side. I did a sculpture 
called “The Machine for Accelerated Extinction,” and it's paintings 
of endangered animals, and it's run on a little Arduino. Do you 
know what Arduino is? Arduino's like a little microprocessor that 
you can make do many things. It has a little camera that registers 
your presence and will start a machine that then basically erases 
each painting. Your presence, in looking at this painting of an 
endangered animal, contributes to the further endangerment of the 
animal. It's a bitter and ironic statement, or something. I can't 
remember it.   
 But the thing I did for the University was— If I get too geeky here, 
just, you know. There's this really cool thing called Lindenmayer 
systems that is all about the logic of branching systems. When 
you're doing genetic biology, one of the things you look for is how 
plants branch, and plants branch in specific algorithms. It's very 
cool, so the patterns that any plant does, but it's a pattern that also 
echoes itself everywhere in nature.  I created this sculpture of a root 
thing because I was thinking about how when you genetically 
engineer something, and you have plants that are in constant 
communication with each other, which they are, when you 
genetically engineer one of these plants, does that basically create a 
different language, and do the plants then have to learn  each 
other's new language? This root system is going down, and I wrote  
a series of algorithms that created animations where I would just 
change one variable, and the algorithm, the branching system 
would change radically. There's a video of it I can show you. So it's 
kind of cool just because this idea I had was that trees talk to each 
other, plants talk to each other, but if you're planning something 
that you've changed the basic molecular makeup of, what are the 
ramifications down the line?  
Raiskin:  The portraits that you've done have you photographed them so you 
can print them or put them in a book or something like that?  
Thompson:  Yeah. Uh-huh [affirmative]. Uh, no, I haven't done that. I guess I 
saw them as sort of— I had a really good friend, a dear friend who 
died a few years ago, and I had painted a portrait of her many 
years ago. She had been a cook all her life, and I painted a portrait 
of her where she's at the stove in this café where she worked. She 
was just this beloved woman in the lesbian community in Seattle. 
At her memorial service— I had never signed it, I just painted it, 
because I would paint friends. It was up on the stage and her 
partner, everybody that was in her family who she'd been really 
estranged from, not in her taken family, but her biological family, 
everybody wanted that portrait. It didn't matter who painted it. It 
was that it became this legacy object. I was thinking, it's like most 
of us, many of us, don't have children, and we're the dotty aunties 
of the world. We're the crazy and interesting aunts of the world. I 
love this idea of each woman having like a legacy object that would 
somehow pass down. The painter would be forgotten, but the  
person that it was of, you know? Because I have paintings of people 
or photographs that are dear to me, and they keep those people 
alive for me as well. That's what was kind of the thinking behind it.  
Raiskin:  The reason I would like to see a book is just thinking about old 
lesbians as a genre.  
Thompson: Yeah, yeah, that's true!  
Raiskin:  As a thing, and in doing these interviews, we're thinking about that 
too. Wondered what you think about aging as a lesbian, what that 
means to you?  
Thompson:  Yeah, it's interesting. It's the adventure in aging. I think we get 
more beautiful in our wisdom, and we let things go more, so in that 
sense, I think there's an easiness to the women I know now that we 
sometimes didn't have before, an easiness among ourselves. I think 
that one of the things I worry about is I've been fairly fortunate in 
my life. I would say over half my friends are not, and it's going to 
be tenuous old age. I think that worries me a lot because women 
don't make as much money. They save less. They  have less Social 
Security. One of the things I know has been talked about, but I've 
talked about with friends, is I've had friends move to Montana just 
because it's cheaper to live there. You know, how to navigate that. 
You know, you go through co-housing, and also, how to navigate 
extreme old age.  
 Right now, it's for I'm sixty-five, it's sort of the gravy years. I think 
the next ten years will be pretty free and easy, but A, that's not true  
for everyone. I think these are also the years we have to figure out 
how we're going to move into a place where we're going to be more 
dependent. We all joke about it now, but the— 
Raiskin:  Does it worry you as a lesbian to be vulnerable in old age?  
Thompson:  No, I don't think it does. I understand why a lot of women would, I 
think. I have never felt powerless, so I don't think I would bring 
that into it, and of course, it might happen. Who knows?  
Raiskin:  What would be the ideal situation for you when you're seventy-
five, eighty-five? 
Thompson:  Oh, to fix up part of the house as a separate living quarters and 
have a beautiful young lesbian I could just look at. Help the both of 
us in and out of the tub. How about that?  
Raiskin:  You're not the first to have dreamt that one up.  
Thompson:  You asked.  
Raiskin:  Is there some part of your life or some topic that we haven't 
covered that you would like covered?  
Thompson:  That's interesting. Women's houses, I think, are really interesting, 
and I've lived in women's houses here and in Seattle. That was very 
much part of that era, I think. I mean most of us went to live 
independently or with partners, later on, but in that particular era, I 
think it was a way of sort of building community and having— 
because  we weren't just lesbians, we were also still young, and  
when you're young, you don't know. You're still figuring stuff out. 
It was a way of sort of easing into the independent and to free-
range adulthood, I think, in a way that made it really easy.  
 I lived with various women, and we would have these strange and 
wonderful adventures. We'd take off for the coast, or whatever, and 
it became kind of a home to come. For me, it was important 
because I had very little immediate family, so my brother was 
killed in an accident while I lived in Eugene. My mom died, my 
father died in that time, and then my mother died shortly after I left 
Eugene. I have no other immediate family, really. Those women's 
houses really provided a sense of home, I  think, in a way that was 
really, really important to me. I think one of the things that guided 
me in a good way, and also in a bad way, was always a search for 
home. It made me needy in relationships sometimes.  
Raiskin:  Well, thinking about young people, if you were to think about, 
from the position that you are now and having lived the very rich 
life you've lived, would you have advice for young people who 
might be watching this soon or maybe even in fifty years?  
Thompson:  Yeah. Sometimes I think that young people have bought into some 
kind of track that they have to be on. They have to go to college. 
They have to do this. I had none of those things, but what I did do 
was just be fearless, and I think the thing I would say is be fearless. 
I am like the most obnoxious autodidact you've ever met. I don't 
regret any lack of advanced schooling, but I think that— Just go out 
and do the things. Don't worry too much about learning them.  
Learn on the job. Learn as you do, because A, things are constantly 
changing, and anything you learn is going to be different by the 
time you get to it. Also, do stuff because you want to do it. I honed 
my chops as an artist by doing absolutely dreadful art for The 
Women's Press. Do it because you believe in it. I think one of the 
things I see is there's not this sense that you need to embrace 
everything in front of you. I think people feel sometimes that they, I 
don't know, maybe they're scared or something, and I worry about 
that. I worry that they've boxed themselves in too narrowly. I guess 
that would be my advice to them, which honestly if I had kids, I'm 
not sure I'd send them to college. I'm not sure it's worth taking on 
that kind of money anymore.  
Raiskin:  Any advice about relationships?  
Thompson:  Oh, man. Mary and I are into our twenty-fourth  year. We're kind of 
wildly different, but we are intellectual equals, and I think that 
that's super important because the things that draw you to 
somebody early on, the lust and all the other things, it's cliché, but 
later on, it really becomes— like sometimes we joke we're just sister 
wives to our house. Really. Finding somebody that you can discuss 
things on sort of a level where you have a certain shorthand is 
really important, because I've been in relationships with people 
smarter than me, and I've been in relationships with people where I 
felt bad all the time because it just felt not right, not equal or 
something. I think that that's super important, but that's just me. I 
think for other people it might be different.   
Raiskin:  Do you have anything to say to gay kids?  
Thompson:  Gay kids. Man, they're flexible these days. I think it's great. A kid 
of— he's not gay, but his mothers are gay— told me, because I was 
telling him, "You know, kids are so flexible," and he said, "Well, 
they are, and they aren't. You wouldn't believe the number of kids 
that call themselves. They say, ‘I'm queer,’ and all that means is that 
they're in a straight relationship." Okay. But I don't know. I think 
that's good.  I worry, I do. I mean, we came of age  in a remarkable 
time, and where we were really, in many ways, free, and I know 
that many people have had serious issues with their families in 
coming out and terrible things happen to them, but all in all, 
historically, I think that it was really a time of great freedom for my 
generation. I think that that fruit is being born out in how a lot of 
young people see themselves, but I worry about what's coming 
down the road. I mean, I think that we live in frighteningly, 
increasingly religious society, so I worry for them. I can't tell you 
how many times I think, "Boy, glad I'm old," because I really, I do 
worry, as I'm sure most people do right now that I know, anyway.  
Raiskin:  But you were up against the State too, if you think about the early 
'70s.  
Thompson:  Yeah, yeah, yeah. I have a box of Freedom of Information files to 
prove it, where in many of them, I'm ignominiously referred to as, 
"Subject's girlfriend," but, hey. I was dangerous,  too.  
Raiskin:  Well, thank you very much. This has been—  
Long:  Yes, thanks! 
Raiskin:  —such a pleasure.  
Thompson:  Yeah, yeah, it was interesting. I hope— I don't feel like I gave you 
very much on Eugene, but— 
Raiskin:  You did. 
Long:  Did you want to talk more about Eugene?  
Thompson:  No, I can't really— my problem is statute of limitations— I mean, I 
don't really remember that much more than I've told you.  
Long:  I do actually have a question for you.  
Thompson:  Sure.  
Long:  Did Jackrabbit Press have anything to do with The Women's Press? 
Thompson:  No, mm-mm [negative]. They were really two separate entities.  
Long:  Oh, two separate things.  
Thompson:  Yeah, because they printed on a web press. They were newsprint.  
Long:  Uh-huh [affirmative], okay.  
Thompson:  Actually, they printed at a print shop that I think was not far from 
Starflower. I don't think it's there anymore.  
Long:  Okay.  
Thompson:  [Big Wood Press 01:11:04].  
Long:  Did you— 
Thompson:  I worked with— 
Long:  —advertise in The Women's Press? 
Thompson:  Yes, we did. We advertised in The Women's Press. I drew things and 
wrote things for them. The one person I remember from The 
Women's Press  is Laurie  McClain.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  