 
 
Long:  This interview is a part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Barbara Newman and Liz Webb, 
on October 20, 2018, taking place in the University of Oregon 
Libraries’ recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. Barb and 
Liz, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the university to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Webb:  Yes.  
Newman:  Yes. 
Long:  Thank you. Why don't we just get started with a basic question.  
Barb, you're on my left, so let's start with you. Can you please tell 
us when and where you were born, where you grew up and 
something about your early years?  
Newman:  I was born in Iron Mountain, Michigan on June 6, 1939. My parents 
owned a country store in a small town outside of Iron Mountain 
which actually  was in Wisconsin. I grew up in a tiny town called 
Aurora, Wisconsin. Aurora, like Aurora Borealis. We lived upstairs 
and it was a big country store and my dad, so my mom too, but my 
dad was the primary person. There was a grocery store, a hardware 
store, and he sold feed and seed for the farmers. It was a dairy 
farming community. We had a little old Ford truck that he did 
deliveries in. We lived there until I was about five and then my dad 
sold the store and we moved to a house and he became the 
manager of the store that he had once owned. That didn't work out 
well. And he quit after a while. And we moved to Lansing, 
Michigan when I was seven. And that of course, was where Liz 
lived. And for the first couple of weeks I lived in Lansing. I actually 
went to the school that Liz went to called Allen Street School.  
Webb:  Two weeks.  
Newman:  But I didn't know her. She was in another grade. We were living 
with my aunt and uncle who lived in Lansing and then we moved 
to a house in Lansing and I lived there until I graduated from high  
school and went to Ann Arbor to school. I never really lived except 
for the summers, I never lived in Lansing again. I met Liz when I 
was in high school. I have a brother who was four years younger 
than I. We lived in a neighborhood that was very blue collar. My 
dad was a pharmaceutical salesman at that point and housing was 
very hard to find when we moved to Lansing and my dad bought a 
house. My mom wasn't there and when we arrived  on the train, 
we'd been staying at my grandparents' house. When we arrived on 
the train to move to Lansing, he drove us past the new house and 
my mother cried. It was not a very nice house, but it was right 
across the street from the school. She liked that, she was at school 
teacher and so she wanted her children in school every day and 
being across the street was a good thing.  
Long:  How about you, Liz?  
Newman:  Your turn.  
Webb:  Well, I was born in 1937, November. I was the third of my mother's 
children and  the first girl. That did not give me any extra credence 
at all, to be the first girl. My older brothers were the bosses. So, I 
remember lots of things about Lansing. I remember being very 
young. I remember being in my four, five and six and we lived in 
that house for many, many, many, many years because my mother 
continued to have children, which was always a puzzle to me. My 
mother is a native Scott and I bet there were some talks between 
my father and her because he— I'll tell you about my father in a 
minute. I always felt that it was fine for her to have the baby. She  
also lost babies. That always happened during that period of time 
in the early forties or in the thirties  because I was born in '37.  
 I really became a tomgirl because there were seventeen  boys in my 
neighborhood and I was the only girl. So what do you do? You play 
with the boys. But after a while I learned what I could run them 
and I did. We had our all gangs, and I had my gang and I had 
about ten in that gang. And so we have that part of the 
neighborhood. And that it taught me that I needed to make my 
space with seventeen  boys. My older brothers were always willing 
to be good brothers to me and— but when you got out on the street 
you had to be tough. So I was. Then as I grew older, and my 
mother was losing babies and having babies, I then became as the 
only girl— that I had an awful lot of work to do that would help 
my mother.  
 My father didn't help at all. Of course at that time, how many men 
did? They had to be really good, decent men who loved their 
wives. We stayed there and I went to a grade school there. I went to 
middle school there. I went to high school in that town, and then I 
realized that I could get some assistance to go to college. I wasn't 
going to get that from my parents, but  I made a different decision. I 
decided at seventeen  that I was not going to go directly to college 
because I didn't have any money. I mean, out of six children, my 
mother and father, he wasn't— by that time he had been a 
successful salesman for a lot of years, but by the time I was 
growing up, he sort of just relaxed and retired. So—  
Newman:  Gave up.  
Webb:  Yes, he gave up. However, what I have to tell you, which is always 
very important to me, is that my father was— I'm not sure what it 
was about Hastings,  Michigan, but that's where he was born and 
growing up. He had a very, very quick, fast and mean temper. If 
you think of the three older ones, he was able to be mad at my two 
older brothers, Harry and Dean, but they grew pretty fast and by 
the time they  got taller than he did and he looked, they looked him 
in the eye. He never hit my brothers. But guess who came next? 
And so, if anybody was going to get beat up, it certainly wasn't 
going to be my little brothers and sisters. It was going  to be me. I 
did get beaten up a lot. Make still makes me cry, so it makes me, I 
refused to go to my father's funeral. I wanted to have really nothing 
to do with him. He was very smart man, but he was not kind and 
he was not helpful. I— 
Long:  How did your mother react— 
Webb:  Well— 
Long:  to— 
Webb:  —let me give you one example. My mother decided because he 
didn't go to work anymore. He just stayed home and so she got a 
job with the— 
Newman:  State of Michigan.   
Webb:  State of Michigan. She was essentially providing all the money for 
our house and— 
Newman:  She got a job as a janitor in a state office building. Lansing is the 
capital of Michigan and she was a nurse in Scotland. She had been 
a nurse.  
Webb:  She was top-notch.  
Newman:  So it was  quite a tumble.  
Webb:  Quite a fall.  But nevertheless, she looked around and saw us and 
she knew we had to have some money from somewhere. We did 
get welfare, but what happened when the welfare people came to 
the door, my father told them that we were doing fine, go away. So, 
we didn't get any help from them. You're beginning to feel, I'm sure 
how I feel about my father or felt about my father. But anyway, 
what I learned during all those years was that I loved being 
independent. I loved my mother. I did not like my father, but I took 
care of all of her children because my father refusing to do 
anything. My mother decided she had to go to work. So here's my 
mother from Scotland who has having all these children. And that 
began to stop when she went to work and she provided for us. She 
did that for five years every day.  
 What enabled me and assisted me in going to college was that if 
you've ever met my mother, which she's dead now, there's 
something about being Scottish, there's something about being 
caring, there's something about that particular  group of human  
beings in the world that are mostly really kind people and  very 
interested in people. She was interested in all of us, but she had to 
work— 
Newman:  She got a new job.  
Webb:  —from five to twelve, so when she got home it would be midnight.  
I would wait up on the front porch, winter, summer, spring and 
wait for her because I knew she was exhausted. So we would go 
and sit in the kitchen and I would make her some coffee because 
she for Scottish person I never knew she could drink all that coffee , 
but she did. Then we would talk. I learned lots and lots and lots 
about Scotland and my mother and her siblings.  
 Then I learned that I could not go to college. I graduated from  high 
school and I got a job and guess who got it for me? My mother.  My 
brother had a job, guess who got that for her? She got that job from 
my brother. My oldest brother, guess who got his job? My mother. 
She was just this incredible human being. I think she worked 
herself to death, is what she did. She just worked and worked and 
worked.  
Raiskin:  How old was she when she died?  
Webb:  She was sixty-seven? 
Newman:  Late sixties.  
Webb:  Late sixties.   
Newman:  She died on the operating table having a valve replacement. So— 
Webb:  God damn valve replacement. I've had one myself. I had it before 
her and the doctor was incompetent and my brothers and I all 
decided that he killed there, which he did. My second brother is 
very, very, very, he can be very verbose, he can be very angry and 
that way  he’s like my father. But he went to this man who was 
supposedly the person who was doing this one small procedure 
with her and what my brother said to him is, “You had better live a 
very good life from this point on because I will take you to prison 
in any minute because I know you will have killed my mother.” He 
was so inappropriate. He did the wrong kinds of things. And my 
mother died on the table, which I was living in Oregon at that time.  
 I remember getting the phone call from my brother and I started to 
cry, I mean, what you do.  
Raiskin:  Liz, when you say that you learn to be tough as a young person 
and on the street with your gang, what does that mean?  
Webb:  Oh, seventeen  boys and me, that's what it means. I was just always 
one of the bunch, but I was  the leader of the bunch. It gave me an 
opportunity to earn that as a girl in that group. And it never was a 
problem.  
Raiskin:  Did you have to protect yourself from them?  
Webb:  No. Well, they were wonderful and we also had paper routes 
because that was  how we gave my mother money. Harry got the  
paper route first and Lansing State Journal  was the newspaper and 
he did that for about six months and he thought, I hate this. So then 
he turned it over to my next brother, Dean, who only did it for 
about two  or three months and said, “I don't like it either. I'm not 
going to do that.” And then what I have to tell you is, in that period 
of time I could not have a paper route in my name. I just took it 
over for seven years. I did that paper route, I delivered it— 
Long:  Under  your  brother's name?  
Webb:  Under my brother's name. So, I was out there winter, spring, 
summer, fall. I had to do it every day.  
Long:  And go to school.  
Webb:  And go to school. That's right. So, it was a very, when I think about 
it, my mother's always got to be in the middle. She's always got to 
be there.  
Raiskin:  How did you two meet?  
Newman:  Well, Liz was a year ahead of me in school. In our high school Latin 
was one of the languages offered. It was not terribly popular 
anymore. We were in the high school in the fifties. But the Latin 
teacher was extremely good. Her name was Erma Smith, and so 
they offered— 
Webb:  She was about four feet  four— 
Newman:  —four years. But the last— well, maybe not that tall, four, five, six.   
Webb:  But boy you would better be careful.  
Newman:  They offered third and fourth degree Latin. It was Cicero one year 
and Virgil the other year. And so they did them in alternate years. 
When I took— I can't remember which one I took first, Virgil 
maybe. And Liz was in the  class. Here was this cute little dark 
haired person who had two outfits that she wore to school, that 
was all. 
Webb:  And you know I bought them  at the Goodwill. That's what I had.  
Newman:  We had to wear skirts. 
Webb:  I had a corduroy skirt that I had to redo and— but I fell in love with 
this beautiful blue eyed person right away.  
Newman:  Well, no you didn't because I noticed that she sat in the cafeteria. 
This is long ago. Kids couldn't leave the high school building 
during lunch hour. I we ate  in this  big cafeteria. And she sat with 
all these other kids who were older than me. I was a sophomore, 
she was a junior. I started going over and sitting at that table with 
these older kids and they tolerated me, which was kind of amazing. 
That was really how  I inched my way into her attention. And so we 
became very fast friends. And then we became romantically 
involved pretty quickly after that. She sat ahead of me in Latin 
class. There were probably eight people in the class, maybe ten. All 
of them good students. I mean, if you weren't a pretty good 
student, you didn't stick with Latin that long.  So, she wasn't so 
great at doing her homework. I was much more conscientious.   
Webb:  I had too much to do.  
Newman:  We would have translations and then we'd have to  read aloud 
during the class and she'd stumble and I'd put my head down like 
this, and I tried to say quietly what the word meant. 
Webb:  She did.  She was so wonderful.  
Newman:  “Divisible”, or something like that.  And the teacher didn't hear me 
very well, but the teacher always heard Liz. 
Webb:  It's this voice, I mean every class I've ever had, but that one. So I got 
caught, I  got caught— 
Newman:  She’d get mad at Liz for talking to me and then she'd tell her to 
leave. She'd send her down to the office, off all things.  
Webb:  I talked to the principal and before long he and I were just chit 
chatting.  I went back to class.  
Newman:  Well, she was a bit of a rebel because she also was having kind of a 
flirtation with the Seventh Day Adventist Church. Was it?  
Webb:  Yeah, the three churches I picked up.  
Newman:  Which one wasn't like going to let you say the pledge to the flag? 
Webb:  I think it was the Seventh— 
Newman:  Anyway, I'm not sure it was. But anyway, she was going to these 
meetings, learning about this religion and so she decided she was  
no longer going to stand or say the pledge to the flag or sing the 
Star Spangled Banner.  
Webb:  Or the Allegiance. 
Newman:  We had assemblies and at assemblies, it was a large auditorium. 
You could sit wherever you wanted. We would sit together and 
then they'd have a stand to do the pledge to the flag. But she 
wouldn't stand.  
Webb:  I would  say no. Was not—  
Newman:  “Stand up.” [whispers]  
Webb:  It didn't go along with  the church.  
Newman:  “You don't have to say it. It can just stand up.” Well, then pretty 
soon a teacher would come and grab her and away she'd go back to 
the office.  
Long:  And this was in the mid-fifties?  
Newman:  I graduated in '56 and she in '55, so early 1950s. But she was an 
excellent student. I mean it wasn't that she— but the  rebel streak in 
her was pretty big in those years.  
Webb:  It's true.  
Long:  What's the high school in Lansing?  
Webb:  Yes, Lansing Eastern Heights.   
Long:  What was the population of the school? I mean— 
Newman:  Three hundred  kids in a graduating class. So, about a thousand 
kids. A lot of kids dropped out of school and you know, 
Oldsmobiles were made in Lansing, no longer. But the boys who 
weren't particularly interested in school, dropped out in droves to 
go to work at Oldsmobile. You could earn four  dollars an hour at 
Oldsmobile. That was in those days. I on the other hand, the first 
job I had, I think I made ninety  cents an hour. I mean, so four 
dollars an hour  was a pretty big wage. And, even girls. If girls got 
pregnant, they had to quit.  Girls got married, and a lot of girls did 
get married.  
Webb:  They had to quit.  
Newman:  So the sophomores— 
Webb:  Is a different class.  
Newman:  —class was much larger than the senior class.  
Raiskin:  When you became attracted to each other and romantically 
involved, what did you think about that?  
Webb:  We loved it. But we never could do it at my house. That was 
impossible. So, Barb  invited me to her house. That works.  
Newman:  We didn't think we were lesbians, I don't think. I mean, we knew 
the concept. Both of us are really serious readers. We knew what 
lesbians were, but I don't think that's what we thought we were.  
We just really loved each other. And we had this romantic dream 
that we were going to— Liz was going to go to college and become 
a doctor and then she wanted to go to India to save the poor. And I 
would come, too, and we would adopt children. We had a very 
elaborate dream of what our future would look like.  
Webb:  But we wanted children, for sure.  
Newman:  But our parents we're not too crazy about this relationship. Our 
parents quickly figured it out it was more than just girlfriends. 
And— 
Raiskin:  How did they figure that out?  
Newman:  Well— 
Webb:  All you had to do is watch us.  
Newman:  We were pretty affectionate. Not— I mean, we held hands and we 
talked on the phone all the time.  
Webb:  In Lans— in high school, we would walk down the hall holding 
hands. To the best of my knowledge, nobody called my mother and 
told her.  
Newman:  We were not made fun of in high school.  
Webb:  Not ever.  
Newman:  We were always— 
Webb:  We were always the top group.  
Newman:  I have an old high school  yearbook in which people wrote  “I hope 
you and Isabel  have a happy life together.” I'm sure our parents 
were not feeling that way. And finally Liz's mothers said no more 
of this, you're not going to do this anymore.  
Long:  Can you describe the level of your relationship?  
Newman:  We were— we spent the night together when we could. We were 
very ill-informed about lesbian sex. So it was romantic but not 
particularly sexual. Right?  
Webb:  We figured a way.  
Newman:  Well, I think you had figured it out later when I later moved  to 
Eugene much more completely than that.  
Webb:  Right. I did.  
Newman:  But we used to stand on the street corner. We both walked to 
school. High school kids. There weren't buses for high school kids 
in those days. It was kind of long walk  home.  
Webb:  It was  a long walk. 
Newman:  Part of the way we could walk together and we would stand on the 
corner where each of us needed to go a different way. And talk and 
talk and talk.  
Webb:  Hours, and I was supposed to be going home taking care of all the 
kids.   
Newman:  She had younger brothers and sisters she was— and her mom 
would actually drive past this corner in  this little old Chevrolet that 
she drove and she would not look at us—  
Webb:  She sat up  very straight. 
Newman:  —because we saw her.  We knew when she went by— 
Webb:  And looked forward.  
Newman:  And at that point Liz would run home.  
Webb:  I ran and ran, it was blocks and blocks and blocks, but I got there 
and the  kids were all fine.  
Long:  Did you have a sense that what you were doing— 
Webb:  Sure.  
Long:  —was wrong?  
Webb:  No. 
Newman:  I don't think I felt— 
Webb:  It never felt wrong. It felt wonderful.  
Newman:  I don't think, I thought it was wrong.  
Long:  But you became aware that your parents did not want you to have 
that kind of relationship.  
Webb:  That didn't stop us.   
Newman:  And after this ended, Liz graduated and that summer she'd gone to 
work for the state of Michigan as a drafts person. That's pretty 
funny because she knew nothing about drafting. 
Webb:  I have to tell you this. I have to tell you one quick story and Barb 
will embellish it.  And that is that my mother once again went to 
work and as I told you that, and she was working around a whole 
and there were seventy  men and my mother, in this great big room. 
And they were all people who were working on plans for building 
bridges, for building roads. Each one of those groups had about 
seven men in it. So, she would say to each one, well my oldest son 
is really ready to maybe have a job and he's so smart.  
Newman:  But your brothers never went working for the drafting  department. 
Webb:  They didn't do that. But she helped them get another job and then 
she helped Dean get another job but me, she sent me to all these 
places in this unit. They thought I was wonderful. Seventy  men and 
me. 
Newman:  She told them that Liz knew how to draft, which was— 
Webb:  She told them, she said she's a wonderful drafter. And that was on 
a Friday. On Monday I was supposed to go to work.  
Newman:  She went to the library and got a book about drafting— 
Webb:  And I read. I read probably sixty  hours in those three days. And by 
God, when I walked in that door, I never said a word about it, not 
knowing, but I'd read those books.   
Newman:  So at any rate, she was working and I was working in a drugstore. 
She called me one night and said, “My mother says that I have to 
stop, that we have to stop this.” She was afraid her mother could 
put her in a mental hospital.  
Webb:  Which she could, I don't know if you know about that or not, but in 
the ‘50s if a parent decided that their child's behavior was 
inappropriate and didn't belong with other “regular” human 
beings, they were sent away to an institution. And I knew that and 
I didn't want to have that happen.  It scared me to death because I 
knew that if she got upset enough about us, she might do that.  
Raiskin:  How did you know that that was happening?  
Webb:  We read about it. We read everything.  
Newman:  After the phone call, really, that was it. I didn't see her again. I 
mean not, I didn't see you for— until  I went to Ann Arbor I don’t 
think. When I went to fall, just to call it back to school in the fall, 
now I'm a senior and she's working. I made up my mind that I was 
not going to get involved with any other girl that this was way too 
painful. I went to a grammar class designed for college-bound kids 
and with a very stern teacher. I sat next to this really handsome 
young man and flirted with him outrageously. He became my 
boyfriend. And he was a flaming  gay queen, which I didn't know in 
the beginning. I did know, I mean, I figured it out. And then I had a 
history in college of dating mostly gay men. I mean, first I didn't 
usually start out. I didn't know. And then, Oh my gosh, yes. Again  
this. Although, I married a man who I met in college who was not 
gay, my only non-gay boyfriend.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  I finished my senior year and the following fall we both went to 
Ann Arbor as freshman because she had worked a year and I was 
going to— 
Webb:  And I saved all that money. Which was really an amazing amount 
of money was $1,800 that I had earned.  
Newman:  So, we’d occasionally see each other on campus. But it was 
extremely awkward. She actually lived near me. I lived in the east 
quad and she lived kind of  three or four blocks away. Once in a 
while but she took me to her apartment to show me. She was living 
off out of the dorms because she didn't have enough money to stay 
in the dorms. And she lived in this very bare bones attic apartment.  
Webb:  And incidentally, the woman who at that time there was a man that 
ran the system and a woman that ran the system for the girls and 
the man for boys. It was one of those times where I just realized I 
had them make it through.  
Newman:  She went in to see the Dean  of Women, who gave her permission to 
not live in a dorm.  
Webb:  I went all the way to the top.   
Newman:  In those days you lived in a dorm till you were twenty-one and I 
was a year ahead in school. I didn't turn twenty-one until I 
graduated. I was in the dorms the whole time unless I joined a 
sorority, but that was not my style at all.  
Webb:  But she was wonderful to me. She was an old  person who had been 
in the Army or the Navy. She was tough. But I said to her, “I really 
need to do this.” And she said, “Well, let's see how you do.” Well, I 
did fine.  
Raiskin:  Do you think she was a lesbian?  
Webb:  Oh, yes. 
Raiskin:  You think she recognized you?  
Webb:  Well, I haven't even given it an awful lot of thought, but I think 
that's true. I mean, I was a tough kid. If  you saw the clothes I had to 
wear, you would think that probably went  right with being a  
lesbian. But thank goodness for Goowill.  
Newman:  When I met her, the duck tail hairdo  was very popular among boys 
and Liz’s hair— Liz had a beautiful duck— she has naturally curly 
hair and it did this wonderful duck tail in the back that none of the 
boys could even possibly equal. But mostly she spent her time 
trying to control the curl. Between classes she would rush to the 
bathroom and with water, get her hair all  straightened for the 
next— But of course that she didn't see in the back, the pretty 
little—  
Webb:  But Barb could,  thank goodness.  
Newman:  Yeah. She looked like a baby dyke.  
Raiskin:  You said it was awkward when you saw each other. What was 
that? What were the feelings about seeing each other there?  
Newman:  It had all ended so badly. I mean, it just felt difficult— 
Webb:  With so many threats.  
Newman:  Well, and I had decided I wasn't going to do that anymore. That 
was just not what I was going to do anymore. So, I was looking for 
a husband. I was going to get married and have kids and have a 
normal life. And in fact, I met the man I ultimately married a week 
into my freshman year in college. I went to a mixer and one of 
those things in kind of a dark room with punch in the corner and 
there was music. And I went back to my room and a couple of days 
later my phone rang and it was this guy who said, my name is Ray 
Newman and I met you at the mixer. Would you have coffee with 
me? I had no memory of this guy.  
 I went and looked in  a Michiganensian, which was a little stupid, I 
was a freshman. I looked up Ray  Newman and there was this tall, 
handsome blond. I thought, Ooh, I don't remember him, but this is 
pretty good. So I went downstairs, the phone rings, I don't know 
how, if you've lived in a dorm where this was, and you'd go 
downstairs and you look around the lobby and here was this not 
very  tall, sort of muscular, Polish-looking man. That was Ray  
Newman. He was a freshman too, so he couldn't have been in the 
Michiganensian  because that was done the year before. He decided 
almost immediately, I mean, I think I'd know him three weeks, and 
he said to me, “I'm going to marry you.” And I said, "Oh, I'm only 
seventeen  and I have a boyfriend at home." Of course, my 
boyfriend was the flaming gay boy. But he was going to change. He 
was going to stop being gay and we were going to get married. Not 
ever officially. I mean, but that was sort of that tentative plan at 
that point.  
Then I dated him for a while. He was way too serious. I didn't want 
to be engaged. He was an engineer, and very introverted and I 
finally said, "Enough. No, we're done." He kind of stalked me then, 
the whole time I was in college.  
 Finally, probably about the end of my junior year, I had dated lots 
of people by then, most of them gay, and thought, You know, 
maybe he's not so bad.  I started going out with him again and we 
ultimately got married.  
Raiskin:  Liz, were you jealous when you saw her dating  boys? 
Webb:  No. I never knew.  
Newman:  She was dating boys, too.  
Webb:  I was dating boys. I had a lot of boyfriends. We got along just 
wonderfully, but I always knew there was something missing.  
Newman:  Well, she went back to Michigan State after two years in Michigan.   
Webb:  I left Michigan.  
Newman:  Because her  brother Gene, her favorite brother, had introduced her 
to this young man he had met at Michigan State, who he said was a 
really nice guy. And Liz seemed to think so, too.  
Webb:  Yep, so I got married to this guy. I ended up having four 
pregnancies. One pregnancy didn't produce a living child, but the 
other three are wonderful. That's my family.  
Newman:  She invited me to her wedding. She got married a year before I did.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  In those days, that's what women did. Every year in college, my 
roommate got married and I would be the bridesmaid. Then 
finally, I knew my parents would not pay for me to go to school if I 
got married, so I finished school and got married immediately after 
my senior year. I went to Liz's wedding at the end of my junior 
year. 
Webb:  Oh, I had a white gown.  
Newman:  In fact, that was odd because she invited me to a shower and then 
to her wedding and I remember going kind of just to see who she's 
marrying. I mean, it was like, "Hmm. Interesting."  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  You didn't feel jealous either?   
Newman:  Well, yeah, I was a little jealous. It was like, he was much taller than 
me, of course. It wasn't a happy marriage.  
Webb:  It was not a happy marriage.  
Newman:  My marriage was more tolerable than hers.  
Webb:  I'll, I'll give you a thirty-second scenario of my time with my 
husband. We lived together for five or six years.  
Newman:  You mean in total? You were married for fourteen— 
Webb:  Fourteen  years. Right. And in that time, of course, I was having all 
the children and then he decided that— there was a fourteen-year-
old that had been my favorite— I had been her favorite teacher.  
Newman:  Liz was an English teacher. We were both English teachers.  
Webb:  She would always stay there at night, when we were done.  
Newman:  You mean after school?  
Webb:  After school. An old, what's the name of that car with the round 
top?  
Newman:  Chevy?  
Webb:  No, no, no, no.  
Newman:  I don't know. It doesn't matter what car it was.  
Webb:  So, he would drive the car to town where he had a job, and then he 
would come to this big complex, high school, and wait out there  
until— and I had this really wonderful group of kids, who I think it 
was one of the most intense moments that I'd known for years, 
being around this group that really were determined. They would 
come out of the school along with me and I'd be standing in front 
and then by the time I got close to the car, then they would of 
course have to wave goodbye. Well, I got in the car one day  and he 
said, "You laugh with those kids every day. You never laugh with 
me." And I said, "That's because you don't know how to laugh."  
 I've had to learn that, because laughter for me has been really 
crucial. That was the big click in my mind, but in the process, he 
had a big click in his mind because one of those students was about 
sixteen—  
Newman:  Well, I think she was nineteen  when they got married.  
Webb:  Nineteen when they got married and he decided that that was what 
he wanted and I never ever felt like that would be any loss to me. I 
had my children.  
Raiskin:  You mean he got involved with one of your students?  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  Although I think by the time they were involved, she was in— they 
were commuting, they were living in Creswell and she was 
commuting to Eugene to go to the U of O. And I think he— was it 
summer when the three of you would come up here to go to class?  
Webb:  Yeah.   
Newman:  You know,  teachers have to keep taking classes.  
Long:  Okay. Can we back up for just a second? You're in Michigan, 
you've graduated from college, you both became teachers. You 
both got married. How did you get to Oregon?  
Newman:  Well, Liz's husband was a big time hunter. Great white hunter. He 
fished and hunted and loved the out  of doors. He had come to 
Oregon to work as a smokejumper? Or just in the woods?  
Webb:  No, he worked as a smokejumper.  
Newman:  He was a smokejumper in the summer. He was an elementary 
teacher and a smokejumper in the summer. She was still in college 
when they were married, and living in East Lansing and he said to 
her, "I'd like to move to Oregon. What do you think?" And she, by 
then, was so sick of her dysfunctional family, pardon my French, 
that she said Oregon sounds great.  
Webb:  That's wonderful. How far away is it?  
Newman:  I don't think she'd been any farther west than Chicago, but Oregon 
sounded great.  
Webb:  Chicago, one time.  
Newman:  They came to Oregon in 1962, in a little Volkswagen— 
Webb: That's it, the Volkswagen.   
Newman:  — with two babies, and a dog and whatever they could possibly 
take in the car, which I'm sure was very little. So, she had been 
here, and she found a teaching job in Eugene.  
Webb:  Instantly.  
Newman:  He did too. But those were the days when, if you were a teacher, if 
you could breathe, you could find a job.  
Long:  And what school did you teach at?  
Newman:  South?  
Webb:  Yeah, South Eugene, which was very interesting for me, because 
South Eugene was the top high school in the area and like Barb, I 
got a job immediately.  
Long:  And that was in '62?  
Webb:  That was in '62, and so I taught there.  
Long:  What did you teach?  
Webb:  English. I loved the kids I taught, and I was really happy because I 
thought that Dick and I would be able to have some opportunities, 
because we were living on a farm.  
Newman:  You weren't living on the farm then, I don't think.  
Webb:  Yeah, we were.  
Newman:  Because you taught at North too, and then you taught at South.  
Webb:  I taught at North too. That's right.  
Newman:  They bought a little farm, outside of Creswell.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  That's where their children grew up, until the divorce.  
Webb:  That's right. And in the process of picking me up, he became 
attached to one of the girls in the group who would always be 
waiting around, and boys, to say goodbye to me. And then he told 
me that— she was seventeen  years  old?— 
Newman:  I think she was seventeen  when it started.  
Webb:  And he said, "I've decided that's who I want." And I thought, thank 
God. It's time. I had my children. He was someone for me to marry, 
but not the right guy.  
Newman:  So now let me go back and tell her what happened to me.  
Webb:  Good.  
Newman:  I graduated from college and married Ray Newman, my eternal 
admirer. Immediately. I didn't even go to graduation, because he 
still needed to do one summer. He was an electrical engineer, and 
he needed to do one summer to finish up. At the end of the 
summer, this was 1960, and the Vietnam War was raging and he 
would have been eligible for the draft. So, he was interested in 
finding a job in defense because then he would be exempt. He 
interviewed in lots of places and ultimately was hired by the Ford  
Motor Company, for a place called Ford Aeronutronic, which was 
in Newport Beach, California. He had gone to college.  
 He grew up in Dearborn, Michigan, home of the Ford Company 
and his dad worked for Ford as a security guard. Every year Ford 
gave a scholarship to an outstanding child of an employee. There 
was this arduous testing procedure and Ray was the Ford Scholar 
of the Year in 1956, when he graduated from high school. He had 
this marvelous full ride scholarship at Michigan. He could've gone 
to any university in the country, and he had tuition, room, and 
board, and a summer job at Ford every summer that he was in 
college. He had this great deal. He could've gone to MIT, he used to 
say. Years later when he realized what he had missed. But at any 
rate, he got a job for Ford Aeronutronic and he and I moved to 
Orange County, California. And we hated it.  
 We were far from home, we didn't like the weather. Pardon me. It 
was very different from Michigan. We didn't know anybody and 
here we were. I was a brand new teacher, I taught in a junior high 
and had forty-three  kids in every class. It was just the hardest 
possible teaching. I mean, I learned a lot that year. I was there for a 
year and a half. I don't think Ray was particularly happy with his 
job. So the second summer we were there, we went home to 
Michigan on a vacation and he said to me, "I'm going to start 
applying for jobs back in Michigan." And that was like, what a 
dream. He had some interviews, while we were home. He'd done 
his applications, he was interviewed and he got a job in Ann Arbor.  
We couldn't, we couldn't have been happier. It was like this was the 
greatest place in the world for us.  
 We went back to Ann Arbor, bought a house, I got a teaching job 
very quickly, of course. We were then going to work hard at having 
a baby. Well, having a baby for us turned out to be a very daunting 
problem. I think we tried for five years. A while. And adopted our 
first child while living in Ann Arbor. Then seven months after we 
adopted our son, guess what? I was pregnant. And so we had two 
more children in rapid succession. Although my youngest  was not 
born, we ultimately left Ann  Arbor and moved to a little town 
called Niles in Western Michigan. That's where my youngest one 
was born.  
Long:  So you had in total— 
Newman:  Three.  
Long:  Three.  
Newman:  An adopted son, and then a daughter and then another boy.  
Raiskin:  How did you come to Oregon?  
Newman:  Well, Liz and I did not communicate very much, but occasionally 
we wrote Christmas cards to each other. At one point she lost my 
address and actually called my mother, which, I thought that was a 
pretty  intimidating thing to do.  
Webb:  Like calling for the giant to come and knock your head off.   
Newman:  My mother was a pretty intimidating person, but she called my 
mother and got my address. So we kept communicating. And 
around 1970 she sent me this letter saying, my husband and I are 
getting a divorce and I have decided that I am a lesbian. And I 
wonder if you would come to Oregon to live with me. Well, that 
struck panic in my heart. I had never told my husband that I'd had 
any romantic relationship with another girl. I had three kids and a 
job that I actually liked. It was like, oh my God, I cannot, and I 
burned the letter. I didn't respond, I just burned the letter.  
 But we persisted in writing to each other occasionally. When our 
Latin teacher died, I knew that Liz would be really upset, as I was. 
Ironically she died of Alzheimer's disease. I sent her the obituary 
with the note and in return I got this letter. This was now 1990 so 
we'd communicated a bit— 
Long:  Nineteen ninety? 
Newman:  Uh huh. We communicated a bit. I mean she once— later she told 
me my letters to her were superficial, trite, and shallow  [laughs], 
but in 1990 I got this letter from her that said my older daughter 
had a granddaughter and I was present at her birth, and I was so 
moved and it made me think about my life and about you and I am 
wondering if you would be willing to meet me in Utah.  
Webb:  I picked the middle. Michigan to Oregon. I picked the middle, I 
said, we'll meet there and we'll have a talk.  
Newman:  I thought Utah was  the most—  
Webb:  Because I missed you.  
Newman:  —hilarious place to meet a lesbian friend. I wrote back and said— 
No, I tried to call you. I spent the weekend on the phone because I 
didn't have her phone number. I called Information. This is 1990, a 
long time ago. And there was no Isabel Webb  listed in the Eugene 
phone book. And I said, well, she's got to be in the phone book. 
She's a psychologist. I mean, I knew by now what she was doing 
and the woman was very helpful and she said, "There is a Liz Webb 
Ph.D., do you think that might be it?" And I said, "Let's give it a 
try." So she gave me the number, I dialed the number and I got an 
answering machine and it was Liz's voice.  
 I knew I had it. I left this message. Yes, I'd love to meet with you. 
I'm not going to Utah. I will come to Oregon. And I didn't get a call 
back. This was quite deflating, and so I tried a couple times— 
Webb:  It was a weekend.  
Newman:  —and finally— 
Webb:  —and I had gone to the mountains.  
Newman:  No, you were in Portland visiting another woman, actually.  
Webb:  Well, that's true.  
Newman:  On Monday morning— 
Webb:  Pardon me. That's true.   
Newman:  —at about six in the morning— 
Webb:  It came to nothing.  
Newman:  —my phone rang. Of course, there's quite a time difference 
between Michigan and Oregon. And it was she, and we talked and 
talked and talked.  
Webb:  Talked and talked.  
Newman:  And I agreed I would go to visit her. I came to the visit— 
Webb:  Well, you'd had some problems.  
Newman:  Oh, Ray and I had had some troubles. Yeah, he was— 
Webb:  Before that.  
Newman:  We'd had a major— I was still married to him, but we had had a 
very difficult period of time when he had decided— He was an 
engineer. He designed loudspeakers. He was the chief engineer in 
the loudspeaker lab for a company called Electro  Voice. I don't 
think Electro  Voice even exists anymore, but it was a big-time 
loudspeaker manufacturer in this tiny town in Michigan. He had 
decided he hated his job and he wanted to do something different. 
He, with a friend, decided they would open a restaurant and he 
made very elaborate plans with this man without telling me. One 
day I was cleaning the house and I came upon this folder with all 
this business plan, and it was clear what it was. I went to him and 
said, "What is going on and why didn't you talk to me?" But at the  
time, we had two kids in college. It was like, really? You're going to 
quit your job? And I mean, then what?  
 I was working at a community college as an administrator, but I 
was not making a lot of money. I said, "What's going on here?" 
Well, big problem. Went on for weeks and finally he— he was a 
bipolar person. He had some difficulties with emotional stuff. 
Ultimately he admitted that in fact he wasn't going to do this. But 
at that point I really stopped trusting him. I felt like  this was such a 
huge thing and he kept it secret for so long. It just was like, I was 
very disillusioned with the whole— so when I got this letter from 
Liz, I thought maybe this is not such a silly idea after all to think 
about. Not just going to visit in  Oregon.  
 I came in July of 1990 for a long weekend?  
Webb:  Right.  
Long:  Had you ever seen  each other in those, what, thirty-some years?  
Webb:  No. 
Newman:  Thirty-three  years maybe it was.  
Webb:  Thirty-three  years.  
Long:  So in some ways you were very different people. In some ways you 
were the same.  
Newman:  Exactly. And that was exactly what we both— I mean, now we 
have wrinkles. We're in our fifties and as Liz says, we never saw  
each other drive a car, or write a check. We were high school 
sweethearts  who'd been separated, essentially. I hadn't seen her 
since her wedding. That was the last time.  
Webb:  That's right. That was the last time. Last time I saw you.  
Newman:  And so it was very awkward in the beginning. And then, Liz is a 
psychologist and so she had said to me, "I have a friend who's 
getting married the Saturday that you will be here, would you 
mind going to the wedding?" And it was an eminent doctor in 
Eugene who was one of her clients who was getting married for the 
second time. I'm not going to tell you his name because you 
probably know him, or know about him. We went to this wedding 
in their backyard, and it was quite romantic. Then, of course, Liz 
knew a lot of people there and she was sort of a celebrity. That 
didn't hurt, you know, all  these people coming up,  “I haven't seen 
you in ages and maybe I need to call to make an appointment.” It 
was like, Wow. 
 That day then, she said after the wedding we'll go either to the 
coast or to the— I'd never been to Oregon before. I'd been to 
California several times.  
Webb:  We had four days. I knew about the coast, which I love, and I knew 
about the mountains, which I love.  
Newman:  But you let me pick.  
Webb:  I was convinced she'd like one or the other.   
Newman:  So we went to the coast, and we drove, and of course it was 
beautiful. I'd done a lot of camping and I'm  kind of an outdoors 
person. I loved it. And then in the car on the way home in the dark, 
we talked and of course we talked the whole time and there was 
something about being in the  car in the dark, and this very familiar 
old voice talking to me. And I was like, Oh my, this really is my 
Isabel. And so that night we went to bed together.  
Webb:  Makes me cry.  
Newman:  I mean, I had been sleeping in her guest room and that night we 
slept together.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  By the time I went home, she had asked me if I would come back. I 
said, I have to think about this. I mean, I had family, I had a good 
job, and friends. I'd lived in Niles for twenty-five years. I really had 
a life, and a husband, and a mother. My father was dead. And three 
kids. I went home and said— and she said to me, "I'm not going to 
give you forever. You have to make up your mind within two 
years. I'm not going to just hold on. You're not going to come out 
and visit me every once in a while. It's either going to be a 
permanent relationship or not."  
 I think it was probably six weeks later I called her and said, "Yes, 
I'm going to come, but I need some time." I hadn't told my 
husband, although I'm sure he was suspicious that something was 
up. And one day I came home from work, and I worked in a job  
where I worked at night a couple of nights a week. Community 
education at night. I worked for two nights a week for years. I came 
home one night and the mail was on the kitchen counter, which 
was odd. My husband had brought it in. Our kids were in college, 
all the kids were gone. And he said to me, "I opened up the phone 
bill." He never opened the bills. You girls have been talking— 
Webb:  You two girls.  
Newman:  Our phone bill was like $300.  
Webb:  It had been thirty  years, you have to remember that.  
Newman:  And I said, "Well, I need to talk to you about that." And I said, "I'd 
like a divorce." That was difficult. I mean this was awful, and it 
troubled me. I mean, he was a bipolar person, so I worried about 
the depression, but he was remarkably— once he got over the 
initial conversation, he was remarkably kind to me. He went with 
me to tell the kids. He went with me to tell my mother, which was 
the hardest of all. And I  was willing to move out. I came in 
December— Liz flew to Chicago. Amazing. She doesn't fly, but she 
did fly to Chicago, and the two of us drove to Oregon together in 
early December.  
Webb:  All those years, talk, talk talk.  
Newman:  I lived there in the house with him until I left, because I had said I'll 
move out. And he said, no, no, no. And it was quite compatible. I  
mean, he came to visit more than once. We once went there and 
actually stayed at his house in his guest room.  
Webb:  He became quite romantic with some women.  
Newman:  Well then yeah, he got married again. He's dead. He died pretty 
young in his fifties  but it was one of the best moments of his life, in 
terms of his kindness to me. He was fine.  
Raiskin:  What did your mother think, having Isabel turn up again?  
Newman:  Oh, my mother was furious.  
Webb:  She was furious.  
Newman:  Just furious. In fact, when we went to Lansing— 
Webb:  She never did like me.  
Newman:  My mom still lived in Lansing and Ray and I drove from Niles to 
Lansing, which is like a two and a half hour drive. And he said to 
me, "We can stand anything for an hour, so we're going to stay for 
an hour." Which I thought was not a bad plan. And then we left. 
But she said things to me like, "Well, it's a good thing your father is 
dead."  
Webb:  Cruel, cruel.  
Newman:  And she said, "I will never come and visit you." Then, this was 
funny, because then she— she was a letter writer and then the next 
time she wrote me a letter after I'd come out here, she said, "I will  
only come and visit you if you're very ill." Then we were still 
writing to each other of course. Then my daughter was getting 
married at Yellowstone National Park, the summer after I came to 
Eugene.  
Webb:  Her name is Faith. Isn't that lovely.  
Newman:  I wrote to my mom and said, “Faith's getting married in 
Yellowstone and if you fly to Eugene we could drive to 
Yellowstone together.” Because I knew it would be hard for her to 
get to Yellowstone. And she did.  She came to Eugene, and then she 
was pretty good.  
Webb:  And we had a lovely time.  
Newman:  We had a pretty good time on that trip.  
Webb:  We all drove together. She was just fine.  
Newman:  Then my brother developed bone cancer. My brother was an 
orthopedic surgeon, and he died of bone cancer. We, of course, 
knew that in fact when he was diagnosed, he called me one 
Saturday morning and said, in this like a voice from the tomb. It 
sounded like this hoarse voice said, "I've been diagnosed with bone 
cancer and I have about eighteen  months to live. Would you call 
Mom  and tell her that?" And I did. But anyway, she had always 
planned to move to Toledo where he lived. Not to live with them 
but to live in an assisted living, or some kind of senior residence 
there. So when he was dying, I said to her, "You know, I think you  
need to move to Eugene." And she said, "I know, and how will I get 
my car to Eugene?"  
 My mom came here at age eighty-nine  and I said, "Well, I'll go to 
Lansing and we'll drive together." And so she did. She lived here 
the last five years of her life, but she was just angry, angry, angry 
with me. She said, "What will I tell my relatives? What will I tell my 
friends?" And I said, "You can tell them anything you want. I'm not 
going to tell them. You tell  them. So then they get the story that you 
want them to hear." And to my surprise, she ultimately told her 
sister. I got a card from my aunt a few months later that said, “I 
hope you are enjoying your new lifestyle.” 
Webb:  Yes, we were.  
Newman: Well, no, that first year was hard.  
Webb: It was hard. That first year was hard.  
Webb:  I had a hard time the first year.  
Newman:  Barb had a really hard time.  
Raiskin:  Why?  
Newman:  Well, I didn't have a job. I was fifty, maybe a little more than fifty. 
Fifty-one. And  I knew one person in Eugene.  
Webb:  And she'd had tons of friends.   
Newman:  And she was self-employed. I'd worked in community college and 
I'd done a lot of work with the CETA Program, which was now the 
JTPA program. And I ultimately— I got a job at Trend  College, but 
I came in December and I didn't go to work until April. I had never 
been unemployed that long as an adult. I'd lived in a little 
community where if I needed a job, someone would call me and 
say, "Barb, how would you like to come to work for us?" 
 And that wasn't going to happen in Eugene, but I did get a job at 
Trend College, which was, I'll tell you more about that later. That 
was an interesting job. Hard. And then I finally went to work for 
the JTPA program, which was a good job, for the County. And I 
worked there until I retired. But my mom was the hardest part of it 
all. 
Webb:  Yeah, she was.  
Raiskin:  What did all your children think about your relationship?  
Newman:  Liz had been in other relationships. Liz's children were very 
skeptical. Her daughter, her older daughter told her mother that 
this was wrong, that she should not persuade a woman to get a 
divorce and leave her husband and come to Eugene because she 
would throw me away in two years. I didn't know that at the time. 
Liz told me that later.  
 My own kids were fine. Surprisingly. They knew that it had been 
kind of an unhappy marriage. I mean, they'd heard the fighting and 
they knew that we were very different people.   
Raiskin:  But were they surprised that you would be with a woman?  
Newman: Yes. That was a surprise. However, Ray's very best friend was a 
gay man. So for kids who grew up in a small town, 30,000 people, 
they knew about gay people. They knew both Jim and Jim's 
partner.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  They didn't have any problem with gay. It was just that I was gay. 
That was kind of— but they were fine all along. In fact, my 
youngest son moved to Eugene, or moved to Portland, lived in 
Portland. He doesn't anymore, but he lived in Portland for many 
years. He came here.  He came here  because— 
Webb:  He dearly loves his mother and she deserves it.  
Newman:  Loves me enough to move to Houston.  
Webb:  Well, that was later.  
Newman:  But my kids were fine. And Liz's kids, I think they were okay.  
Webb:  Yep, they're fine now.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever have any feelings of internalized homophobia? 
Feeling maybe it's not right?  
Newman:  Yeah, I suppose. I mean there was a shame piece to it, I think. Did I 
think that what we did together was wrong, or sin? I'm not a 
religious person, so I didn't have the sin. Although, my family was.  
My mom and dad were religious. That didn't help. They were, 
however, Episcopalian. My dad was raised Catholic and I had been 
a Catholic as a kid, and I married a Catholic. My religious 
background is very patchwork and I'm not a believer anymore. 
That wasn't the problem.  
 When I went to work at Trend College— many lesbians in Eugene 
have worked at Trend. That's kind of the classic “I came to Eugene 
and I got a job at Trend College” was a very typical lesbian 
statement.  
Raiskin:  What is Trend College?  
Newman:  It was a business college that was over in the Delta Oaks Shopping 
Center. It was a chain of colleges. They had four or five 
curriculums. I had done a lot of work in employment and training. 
So they hired me. And I'd  worked for a community college. They 
hired me to be the placement person, and I taught classes in how to 
find a job. And then I matched students with job openings and you 
know, tracked it. Partly, there was a bonus if I made the goal of 
placing enough kids. Or, they were adults, actually. But the funny 
part of Trend was— 
Long:  Excuse me, was it Trent?  
Newman:  Trend like the— 
Long:  T-R-E-N-D?  
Newman:  T-R-E-N-D, Trend College used to be called Eugene Business 
College and then it became Trend. But there was a Trend College in 
Salem and one in Portland. And I don't know where else, they 
didn't pay well, they didn't treat their employees well, but it was a 
job. And the funny part of it was many of the administrators in this 
company were lesbians who had lived  in Eugene, but everyone 
who I knew told me, when you go to Trend, do not ever let them 
know that you are a lesbian. That's not okay. I was trying very hard 
to live by that, which was difficult for me.  
Webb:  Yeah, always is.  
Newman:  You know, I'm new in Eugene, "Why did you move here?". "Well, I 
got a divorce and I have a friend who lives here." "Well, who do 
you live with?"  "Well, I live with my friend." And anyway I found 
that very hard. I'd always been open about my life outside of work 
and to have that— a man who worked there started asking me out 
to lunch. It was like, how do I deal with this? And I made a very 
good friend there. There were two other women who were lesbians 
who worked there, one of whom became a very good friend of 
mine and they were partners. And that was a big secret. But the 
secrecy really bothered me.  
 And so, when I went to work for the county, that was like, "Oh, 
thank God". Because there were all kinds of out lesbians working 
there and it was perfectly fine to be gay, nobody cared. Alicia Hays 
worked at the JTPA program and in fact her office was next to 
mine. And she got pregnant with her son not long after I'd gone to  
work there and one day at a staff meeting, she announced that she 
was pregnant and that day on my door  [knocks], all these people 
came in and closed the door and said, “How did she get pregnant?” 
Webb:  The old way.  
Newman:  Well, with a turkey baster.  
Webb:  With a turkey baster.  
Newman:  It was funny. I mean it was very, very out but nevertheless, lots of 
people wondering about lesbian lifestyle.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What was your experience in Eugene with lesbian community with 
cultural events that were happening with community 
organizations?  
Newman:  Well, Measure 9 happened not long after I came and with my 
friend, whose name was Leah Bullard, from Trend, we got involved 
in the calling business and one day they wanted to do this march to 
oppose Measure 9, that would go to Springfield down Franklin 
Boulevard, across the bridge into Springfield. And of course 
Springfield was seen as the really uptight anti-gay community. 
And so, this pathetic little group of us went with our signs, there 
may be were ten women, "No on 9" signs. And we got down 
entering Springfield and this great big old car pulled up with a 
very redneck looking guy. And he got out of the car and he came 
over to us and  we thought, "Oh my, what now?"  And he said, "I'm  
not gay, but I saw a button that said “I may be straight, but I'm not 
narrow.” Do you have a button like that?"  But we didn't, but we 
told them where we thought he could get one.  
And we went to lesbian concerts, we went to a lot of lesbian events 
in the very beginning. And I was just amazed at the people, this 
huge diversity of dress and behavior and it was an eye-opener. 
Once we went walking on the bike path when I was first here.  
Webb:  Oh my God.  
Newman:  Holding hands and this homeless person  came up to us and said, 
"You  going to invite me to the wedding?" in this really hostile way.  
Webb:  Ugly, ugly voice.  
Newman:  And when we first bought our— 
Webb:  And I said, "No".  
Newman:  When I came, Liz was living on Twenty-First  Street and she had a 
house with an office, but she was renting that house. We bought a 
house together that was one of our first priorities. And we found 
another house with an office in the Ferry Street Bridge 
neighborhood. And when we first moved in there, our house was 
TP'd, which made me feel like it was all about two gay women. I 
don't know; we don't know who did it.  
Webb:  We don't know who did it.   
Newman:  One day two girls came to the door, we hadn't been living there 
very long. Two girls we didn't know, teenagers and they asked us, 
"Do you know the name of the people who live across the street?" 
And I said, "No, I don't know the name of the people who live 
across the street". And they said, "What? You don't know your 
neighbors?" And I said, "Well, we haven't lived here very long." I 
mean it was just an odd little encounter. And they left and they 
went out— our cars were parked in the driveway and they put 
these kind of pornographic pictures of women together under the  
under the windshield wipers of the cars.  
Webb:  It was ugly.  
Newman:  There were some kind of odd moments. I wasn't terrified, but you 
know, it was— 
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  After I went to work for the county— I'd worked for Trend for two 
years. I became friendly with lots of the people I worked with and 
there was an attack on some gay women in Medford and one of the 
men that I worked with, a very liberal guy came to me and said, 
"Barb, if you ever have anything happen at your house that scares 
you, here's my phone number, call me and I will come right away." 
Raiskin:  These were the women that were murdered, the lesbian couple?  
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. So you know, it was a double edged thing 
that there  were both kind of scary pieces to it and also a lot of 
support.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Long:  Can we backtrack for a sec? Liz, could you tell us about your 
education after you got to Eugene, because you became a 
psychologist?  
Webb:  Well, that was a long period.  
Newman: At the time she was divorced. Let me just interject this because it'll 
give her some markers. She had already enrolled in a master's of 
counseling program at the U of O and was involved in that and she 
thought she wanted to become a high school counselor and then as 
she got into the counseling, she was encouraged by her professors 
to consider doing a Ph.D. in psychology, which she did. She also 
realized she didn't really want to go back to high school.  
Webb:  Right.  
Long:  So, you studied at UO?  
Webb:  Yeah, I got my doctorate.  
Newman:  And then during that period was when she had her first lesbian 
partner, right?  
Webb:  That's right.   
Raiskin:  And were your lesbian relationships, significant stories to tell about 
those?  
Webb:  Well, no, I'm really of two minds about that. It was a place for me 
to feel comfortable.  
Newman:  She had a wide circle of lesbian friends as well as a lesbian partner. 
We still keep in touch with that partner.  
Long:  How did you develop your wide circle of lesbian friends in 
Eugene?  
Webb: Actually, that turned out to be very easy.  
Newman:  How'd you meet Penny? In a class?  
Webb:  Yeah, in a class.  
Newman:  She also has a very good friend, still has a very good friend, who 
taught with her in Creswell.  That woman is the sister to the young 
woman her husband married and she is actually— 
Webb:  Who was just seventeen. 
Newman:  We had dinner with those people almost every week, she and her 
partner.  
Raiskin:  What did you think about the marriage equality movement? In 
considering your own relationship?   
Newman:  We were ready to get married and we had many friends who went 
to Washington and got married or to California and we decided we 
were going to wait for— 
Webb:  Oregon.  
Newman:  Oregon. And we were actually both working on the marriage 
equality proposal that was going to be on the ballot in, what was 
that? Twenty-thirteen, 2014, I think it was. And in the middle of 
that, of course there was the Court decision and we decided— our 
kids had said, "Don't be running away and having some fly-by-
night  ceremony in a judge's office, if you guys get married—" We'd 
been together for, I don't know, twenty-five years.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  "If you guys get married, you need to have a big party." And so, we 
had a big wedding in the summer of 2015. We got so much support. 
It was unbelievable. It was wonderful. Yeah, our kids came, our 
grandkids came.  
Webb:  Our kids came, our grandkids came.  
Newman:  We had about a hundred guests, it was big. It was much bigger— 
Long:  Where was it?  
Newman:  At the Country Inn on Coburg Road.  
Webb:  And this is a woman who is not accustomed to these kinds of—  
Newman:  Neither of us had had a very big wedding when we got married to 
men. So,  this was— 
Webb:  But she was great, she just stepped right in. She did all the 
paperwork— 
Newman:  The woman in charge of the Country Inn. She was very nice.  
Webb:  She was very nice, yeah.  
Long:  So how old were you each when you got married in 2015?  
Newman:  I was seventy-six and Liz was seventy-seven. 
Webb:  You never give up.  
Newman:  We never thought we would  be able to get married. This was like 
amazing to us.  
Webb:  It was. It was wonderful.  
Newman:  We had dresses. I mean, we don't ever wear dresses.  
Webb:  Well, if you saw the picture of our wedding you would see two 
women probably thinking that they were about sixty-five and they 
had lovely outfits, nice dresses, nice shoes. And that was us.  
Newman:  And the person who was our officiant was Janet Anderson, which 
was not our original plan. Liz has a brother who is a retired college 
professor who lives in Seattle and he was the person that we 
wanted to go get the license to become a minister. And he was 
willing to do that and he developed heart troubles and needed a  
valve replacement. This kind of runs in Liz's family and he decided 
that was the summer and he was  not in very good health. And he 
called us a couple months before the wedding and said, "I can't do 
this I can't come to Eugene." And so we thought and thought about 
who we could ask and we asked Janet and she did a wonderful job.  
Webb:  She was marvelous.  
Long:  How did you meet Janet?  
Webb:  Oh, we'd known her for a long time.  
Newman:  When I first came to Eugene, one of Liz's best old friends who still 
lived here was Penny Palmer who was married to Jan Becker. You 
might have interviewed the two of them, they’re tax preparers. 
Many lesbians have their taxes done by Penny and Jan, so I thought 
you might know them. But anyway, the first time I came, Liz had 
them invite me to dinner at their house. And Liz's friend Lynn the 
sister to her husband's second wife came down from Portland.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  I think she wanted to show me a lesbian couple that was living a 
normal life. I mean they have a house and yard and cars and 
garden and all the accoutrements.  
Webb:  Cats.  
Newman:  And so, they became among the best friends in the beginning and 
their dear friends were Evelyn and Janet. I met them very early.  
And at that time Evelyn and Janet— I think— were they at 
Womenspace? I think maybe it was before the Womenspace thing. I 
think they were sharing the Womenspace job.  
Webb:  I think so. They shared it.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  How long have you been retired? Each of you?  
Webb:  Oh, well, I'll have to look at one of those forms you got— 
Newman:  I retired when I was sixty-two which was kind of funny. I never 
planned to retire when I was sixty-two but I was working for the 
county and I had a very difficult boss. And we went on a vacation, 
we camped a lot. We used to camp, we used to own a trailer too. 
We've done a lot of travelling— 
Webb:  Climbed mountains.  
Newman:  We were coming home from a long vacation, a couple of weeks in 
eastern Washington. I think we'd been to Glacier. And we said to 
each other as we drove along the Columbia, "Oh, we have to go to 
work". And I said, "You know, I'd love to retire". And so Liz said, 
"Well, you know, maybe we should look at that." So, I actually 
went to the social security office and was told, I didn't know this, 
that I was entitled to get my ex- husband's social security. He was 
in engineering, made a lot more money than I ever did. So, it was 
like, “Ooh.” I called our financial planner and said, "If I retired at 
sixty-two,  would we be okay?"  And he said, "Oh yeah, you'd be  
fine". So I did, I turned sixty-two in June and I retired  in August 
and we had bought a trailer and a truck and we would set off for 
Alaska about a week after I arrived.  
 And then Liz kept working, although she was still seeing clients, 
but she had clients that were pretty durable so she could go away 
for a few weeks at a time. But she worked until the summer of 2006 
and then we had planned to go to Europe for the winter. And she 
thought she could leave her clients for ten months and come back. 
And I said— 
Webb:  I was convinced, I still am.  
Newman:  Sweetie, that's not really ethical, you need to retire. And she was 
getting tired of it anyway. Not of the clients.  
Webb:  Not of the clients.  
Newman:  She was getting tired of the insurance companies.  
Webb:  The insurance companies were the biggest stroke for me of the 
wrong way to deal with human beings and I thought, "I just can't 
do this anymore." I loved the people and I wrote them all letters. I 
had a list of seventeen  people that I talked to them and I gave every 
single one of them that list saying these are the people that over all 
the years I've done this, I feel that they would be very able to help 
you if that's your choice. And then I felt like I had been really 
honest and fair and I still had people call me years later.  
Newman:  She had someone call her a couple  of months ago.   
Webb:  That's right. And so I had to say that I'm— 
Newman:  A new person, "Would you take me as a client?" She's been retired 
since 2006 so— 
Webb:  I said, "No, I'm sorry I can't do that".  
Newman:  The funny thing was, she said, "I will stop seeing patients in June". 
And we were leaving Labor Day  weekend to go to Europe for ten 
months and she saw her last patient the last day of August. So, she 
drew it out as long as she possibly could. But when we came home 
she did not— she let her license go.  
Webb:  Expire.  
Newman:  And we stayed in Europe until June. So— 
Webb:  Almost a year. Was absolutely wonderful for me. And I would say 
that for an event for me and Barb, that  will always be very, very 
high in my mind. We went everywhere, we went south, we went 
north, we went east, we went west. We even ended up in the 
Ukraine. I loved it. I could have kept doing that for years. And we 
lived very, very simply because we lived in hostels. We never went 
to a fancy hotel. We never went to a fancy place and hostels are— 
I'll tell the two of you if you ever decided to do it, it's just great. 
You meet wonderful people who are kind.  
Newman:  You have to have a high tolerance.   
Webb:  You have to have a high tolerance because sometimes you look at 
the dishes— the kitchen, and it would have  this gray across the top 
of the water.  
Newman:  Yeah, the kitchens were pretty bad. But we stayed in all kinds of 
places. Some of them hilarious, sometimes with no lock on the door 
and it was quite an adventure. But we ate one meal out a day and it 
was lunch because we figured lunch is a little cheaper than dinner 
and then we did breakfast and supper  on our own.  
Webb:  On our own.  
Newman:  But we had a fine time. It was just wonderful it was a peak 
experience for me.  
Long:  What did you do with your house that entire time?  
Newman:  We rented it.  
Webb:  We rented it for a year.  
Newman:  We found a woman, Alternative Realty. She does this, she rents 
houses and actually, that's why we went because we figured we'd 
find somebody who was at the university for the winter and would 
be interested  in renting our house. We actually had a man who was 
retired from the university from the law school and he had moved 
to Florida. No, Arizona.  
Webb:  Arizona, yeah.   
Newman:  And his wife had recently died and he was thinking of coming back 
to Eugene, but he wanted to spend a winter here to see if he could 
tolerate the— 
Webb:  The rain.  
Newman:  The rain and the gray. So he was fine, he was eighty— 
Webb:  He lived in our house.  
Newman:  He was eighty-some years old. We carefully bought a rubber sheet 
for a bed we were afraid he might not have good bladder control.  
Webb:  We were probably sure that he did not have terrific bladder— 
Newman:  Now we still have the rubber sheet, but now it's in case one of us— 
Long:  So, do you live in your house still?  
Newman:  Oh yeah. Oh yeah.  
Webb:  Oh yeah.  
Long:  Have you ever considered going to a retirement center?  
Newman:  I was ready to move to Willamette Oaks. I don't know if Liz was 
quite as enthralled as I was with the idea. We have a huge garden 
flower garden, not vegetables. And I created my own hell. I mean I 
planted these shrubs and trees and flowers.  
Webb:  Could we stop just for a minute?   
Long:  Okay, we've taken a break and now we're resuming the interview. 
When we stopped the interview we were talking about retirement 
and where you were living, if we could pick up there and continue 
the conversation.  
Newman:  We have thought about living in a particular place. Actually, we 
were on the wait list for Willamette, for Willamette Oaks 
Retirement Center when Liz was diagnosed with mild cognitive 
disorder. Which we knew was progressive and would probably 
lead to a more serious diagnosis. We did a lot of research, we took a 
class called Memory 101 which is for people with cognitive 
problems, which is great. And in that we heard all kinds of things 
about the future, among them financial planning. And what we 
learned was  that if we should ever need to use Medicaid to cover 
the costs of one of us being in a nursing home, that the only things 
we could keep, if one of us needs Medicaid because we were by 
now married was our house, one car and $2,000. And so, to sell our 
house to move to a nursing home when our future felt rather 
tenuous  didn't seem like a good idea to us.  
 We've lived in this house since 1991 so we've been there twenty-
seven, twenty-six years? Twenty-seven  years. It's a very familiar 
place to both of us particularly when Liz has memory problems 
and if she should need to go into a care facility, I would have the 
value of the house as my one remaining financial asset. And so, for 
those two reasons, at this point we're going to stay in our house. 
We do have some friends who are talking about, wouldn't it be nice  
if we could live near each other, but the thought of selling a house 
and buying another house doesn't really turn me on. It's expensive 
and so much work.  
Raiskin:  How  have you found medical care to be and particularly with the 
idea of how you're treated as a lesbian couple?  
Newman:  We go to a woman doctor, she treats us fine.  
Webb:  Just fine.  
Newman:  I don't think we've ever found— 
Webb:  I don't think we've ever found a problem.  
Newman:  I don't think we've ever encountered any.  
Webb:  With men, too, when we go in for an exam.  
Newman:  Yeah. Liz goes to a male cardiologist, a male nephrologist but a 
female neurologist. So it's a mix. Our biggest worry right now is 
our doctor’s going to retire and we fear that we will not be able to 
find another doctor because we both have Medicare. Yeah.  
Webb:  She's a wonderful woman.  
Long:  And some doctors don't take Medicare.  
Newman:  They often have a quota. I mean we looked for of all things a 
chiropractor not long ago and I found it was very difficult. They'd 
said, "Are you on Medicare?". "Yes". "Well we have all the Medicare 
patients we can take". So it's kind of scary.   
Raiskin:  And how do you imagine aging together?  
Newman:  Well, we've aged a lot together.  
Webb:  It's been wonderful everyday.  
Newman:  We're seventy-nine  and eighty  so— 
Webb:  I don't believe we've ever had a real nasty argument ever.  
Newman:  We have eight grandchildren. We spend a lot of time, not so much 
anymore. Our youngest grandchild just turned twelve  but when 
the kids were younger, we did a lot of babysitting. We'd go and 
stay with them for a week or two while their parents went away.  
Webb:  Traveled.  
Newman:  In the summer, we did the babysitting for a couple of weeks to give 
them a break so they didn't have  to pay for so much childcare. So, 
we have certainly spent much time— 
Webb:  And they're not unhappy with us at all.  
Newman:  We've taken kids camping a great deal.  
Webb:  Oh my. Yes. Yeah.  
Long:  Do any of your children live in Eugene or in Oregon?  
Newman:  Yes. Liz has one son who is in Oakland, Oregon down near 
Roseburg and he has one child. That's the boy who just turned 
twelve. But the only grandchild we had when we got together was  
the one at whose birth Liz had  been present. She's our oldest and 
she's twenty-nine? 
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  So, there's a big spread of ages.  
Webb:  Yeah, twenty-nine  years.  
Raiskin:  As a couple, how do you deal with the memory challenges that you 
have right now?  
Newman:  We work at it.  
Webb:  Yeah, we work at it all the time and in my view, I think I'm doing 
quite well. But I also read a lot. I think a lot. We go to an awful lot 
of places to see and we spend time there, so we get to know the 
people.  
Newman:  We travel quite a bit still.  
Webb:  We travel a lot.  
Newman:  We go to the movies a lot.  
Webb:  Oh, we love movies.  
Newman:  And we're very fortunate. We have a memory loss support group 
called, Forget Me Nots, although it has an alternative name, Dykes 
with  Dementia  [both laugh]. But we— 
Webb:  They’re  our best friends.   
Newman:  There’re seven of us and three of the people in the group have 
memory loss. It's three couples and one of the couples has a dear 
friend who, they live in a house with a house behind it and the 
friend lives in the house behind theirs. We do a lot— we went to a 
girls’ volleyball  game last night with three of them. And two of 
them are women who live in Springfield. And we met the first two, 
the two in Springfield were in our memory loss class. And you 
introduced yourselves and they introduced themselves as a couple. 
Ooh! We start paying attention, and then they said she was a 
therapist and one was a therapist and one is a retired gardener. I 
said to Liz, "We have to get to know these people".  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  We invited them for dinner and then we met some other people 
who came to a garage sale at our house and we had a big long chat. 
Another obvious lesbian couple looking to buy pants. And Liz had 
a lot of pants at this garage sale. All men's pants.  
Webb:  Could I finish it?  
Newman:  Go ahead.  
Webb:  And so we were each at either side and so we were inviting all 
these people in and then we could tell when people would come in 
that we would probably be interested in them. Off they left and 
they were driving away. And then all of a sudden we saw one 
woman running up the street into our garage saying, "We really  
want to know you better. We really want to have good times with 
you. And here's my card." And that started it.  
Newman:  And that woman, the one with memory loss, has had a stroke and 
then a seizure. And so, her memory loss is not— there’re two 
Alzheimer's people and one with another kind of memory  loss. 
Which also it turns out is somewhat progressive. But it's wonderful 
to spend time with this group because if something weird happens, 
if the conversation goes strangely off in another direction, it's 
nobody. I mean some of us look at each other and grin, it's the way 
it is. 
Raiskin: I love that, “Dykes with  Dementia.” 
Newman:  We liked it too.  
Webb:  Isn't that great?  
Newman:  And we do  still see our old friends. We belong to a book club 
together and we have other friends but sometimes I think I sense 
that they're not as comfortable with the memory lapses as our— 
Webb:  Group is.  
Newman:  Our group. And they're the ones, the Forget Me Nots, are the ones 
who are saying, “Maybe we should figure out a way not to live in 
one house but to live near each other.” So, I don't know.  
Webb:  And they would really like that and I don't— 
Newman:  I'm not sure I want to move.   
Webb:  I don't know if I want to move. It's home.  
Newman:  We just got new carpet and we had to empty out all of our 
furniture.  
Webb:  That's right. We love our new carpet.  
Newman:  It was so much work that gives you a hint of what moving would 
be like. But aging together, we no longer hike. I mean that was a 
huge thing.  
Webb:  That's a real loss.  
Newman:  We each have an artificial knee.  
Webb:  Terrible loss.  
Newman:  Liz has had heart valve replacement. I mean, so we've had illness. 
And some of those illnesses keep us from doing the things that we 
like to do. But our neurologist said, travel, travel, travel. And that, 
so far, we've been able to do.  
Webb:  We follow that.  
Newman:  I mean, I know there'll come a point where that isn't going to work 
anymore but we can still do that.  
Webb:  Oh, yeah.  
Raiskin:  You've— 
Webb:  Do you have a cart?   
Newman:  Not one that I would be strong enough to pull you on.  
Raiskin:  When you were young and thinking about what you knew about 
lesbians, we'd be interested in what you knew then, what it was 
like then and how you experienced that now. Because you've lived 
a long time with this experience and understanding of what being a 
lesbian is.  
Webb:  Well, for me it's a totally different world. When it was the ‘60s I 
really was not involved with lesbians at all. I was a teacher and had 
a lot of students who really were important to me, I really did enjoy 
that. And then as time went on, then I resigned from that and I 
went to, I went to, what's the town up that I went to get my— 
Newman:  Right here, Eugene.  
Webb:  Well, I know Eugene, but I mean I had to get my— 
Newman:  Oh, you went to Portland.  
Webb:  I went to Portland. I went to Portland because to be a licensed 
psychologist you have got to do a lot of hoops to get there. And— 
Newman:  She did a residency in Portland.  
Webb:  And I did a residency in Portland. I did a number of things in 
Portland and some of the environs around Portland.  
Newman:  When she was in Portland at the residency, she worked at Phoenix 
Rising, which is a counseling center for gay people. Not only were 
the clients gay and it was during the time of rampant AIDS so she  
saw an awful lot of gay men, but, also, I think most of the therapists 
were gay, correct?  
Webb:  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It was very interesting to me because those gay 
men were just absolutely delighted to, in a sense, to do the kind of 
work that I'm doing with them. That was really wonderful. I had to 
sometimes say to them, "What are your long term hopes? What are 
your long-term  wishes?" Some would break down and cry because 
they didn't know how long they'd live. I never had that experience 
with women. I always had that experience with men. Will I be able 
to survive this? I think that's because, I think, men are much more 
willing to experience some sexual activities that aren't very healthy 
for them or that they enjoy, but they know they're going to have to 
pay a price. It did leave me as wide open as I could get and be as 
understanding as I could. And, yet, at the same time say, "I am 
worried for you. I am worried for what will happen for you so let's 
try to make a plan."  
Newman:  When she came back to Eugene, she became a self-employed  
psychologist, which was brave. She tells me she made $14 the first 
month she was in business. Then she had a mixed clientele and she 
was quite  — on the form we filled out, we had to talk about were 
we active in political issues related to being gay. Liz was quite 
careful about that because she had both gay and straight clients and 
I don't think she thought that it was going to be a selling point to 
heterosexual clients that she was gay. It wasn't a deep, dark secret.  
But neither did she sign petitions that were going to be published 
in the  newspaper, for example.  
Webb:  Right.  
Newman:  Nor work publicly on gay causes.  
Webb:  I really did feel that what I had to concentrate on were my clients 
and the people who, for quite a few years, really did depend on me. 
But I read everything about the events happening. Although we 
didn't go to them.  
Newman:  Oh, we went to events.  
Webb:  We went to some of them.  
Newman:  We went to events.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  Which they asked us. How did we learn about being lesbians when 
we were kids? There weren't many books in those years that were 
well known.  
Webb:  There were some.  
Newman:  There were a few.  
Webb:  More for men than for women.  
Newman:  Yeah. There were a few books.  
Raiskin:  The representations weren't very positive.   
Newman:  No. There were some movies. But, again, the representations 
weren't very positive.  
Webb:  No. 
Long:  Do you remember any books that you got your hands on?  
Newman:  There was Patience and Sarah. 
Webb:  Patience and Sarah. That was one.  
Newman:  There was one that was kind of a classic that I read and I can't— 
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  —even remember the title of it now.  
Webb:  Actually— 
Raiskin:  Well of Loneliness? 
Newman:  Yes, The Well of Loneliness. 
Webb:  Yes, The Well of Loneliness. That was one.  
Newman:  That didn't paint a very happy picture of what lesbian life would be 
like. 
Webb:  No. 
Long:  How did you get your hands on these books?  
Newman:  They were at the library.   
Webb:  They were at the library. Believe it or not.  
Raiskin:  What did it feel like reading them?  
Webb:  Nothing. Oh, oh. Interesting. Interesting, interesting. Then we 
would talk and we would have to think about, well, what would 
that mean for us? Really, I've always felt so, so close to you and you 
and me being very, very close. I've had an absolutely lovely life. I 
have a lot of friends. I have the best spouse in the world. I have 
grandchildren. I have my own children. For lots of lesbians, one of 
the hardest things is finding a way to, if they wish to, a way to have 
children and have it be something that they can work through and 
be comfortable with. I always thought that I would be a good 
example for that and Barb would too.  
Newman:  Except we got children in very normal ways.  
Webb:  Yeah. We got them in very normal ways. We said goodbye to those 
men though.  
Newman:  We're an old long  term couple with almost the same identical 
problems as any other old long  term couple— 
Webb:  Couple has.  
Newman:  Gay or straight. I don't think we're very unique in our problems.  
Webb:  No. The interesting thing is when people do meet us and 
understand that we're gay and these people are straight, it's like 
nothing anymore. It's like, "Oh well, I'm so glad to meet you."   
Newman:  Well, that's the way it is now in Eugene.  
Webb:  That's what I'm saying. That's the way it is now in Eugene or it 
would be that way in Portland too if we lived in Portland.  
Raiskin:  So this has been a good city for you to live in?  
Newman:  Oh yes.  
Webb:  Oh yeah.  
Newman:  Oh yes. We used to talk about where could we live in Oregon? 
Well, we could live in Ashland, Eugene, Corvallis, or Portland.  
Webb:  Go right up the valley.  
Newman:  We had a trailer. We did big, long trailer trips all across the United 
States.  
Webb:  All across the country. Yeah.  
Newman:  We were somewhat careful. We went to Northern Idaho once and 
we were very careful in Northern Idaho. We went to a park. We 
went to have a picnic lunch in a little park— 
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  —up near Priest Lake.  
Webb:  This is an awful story.  
Newman:  I went to  the restroom and stuck into the railing on the wall in the 
restroom was this horrific magazine about gay people and how—  
Webb:  Being sick.  
Newman:  Perverted and— 
Webb:  Perverted.  
Newman:  —evil we are.  
Webb:  I really wanted to burn it.  
Newman:  It was obviously left there for— 
Webb:  But I didn't have a match.  
Newman:  —the enlightenment of the next person that was going to use. We 
once went to a motel in Dayville in eastern Oregon and found the 
same thing. That kind of material on the coffee table.  
Webb:  On the coffee table. Yeah.  
Newman:  In the room we'd rented. Yeah, yeah.  
Webb:  They didn't deny us renting, however.  
Newman:  No. I thought of going to the office and complaining, but I didn't 
think it was going to make any difference.  
Webb:  No. 
Raiskin:  When you see all the queer kids on the streets in Eugene now, what 
do you think about their— 
Webb:  We like it.   
Raiskin:  —journey?  
Newman:  Well, I think the homelessness is really sad.  
Webb:  I think that's a big problem for me too and the drugs.  
Newman:  That does remind us of our home.  
Webb:  I think the drugs are horrible.  
Newman:  Although I don't think my parents would've ever kicked me out, 
but our parents were very judgmental about it.  
Raiskin:  You see a lot of the kids on the street just throwaways and 
runaways?  
Newman:  I think so.  
Webb:  Oh yeah.  
Raiskin:  Because of being gay.  
Webb:  Oh yeah.  
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I think so.  
Webb:  Which is very sad.  
Newman:  I'm also on a citizens review board for kids in foster care. We see a 
lot of kids who are  transsexual, kids who are— what  do they call it 
now? Gender fluid. Kids who want to be called “they.” It's really a 
complicated issue.   
Webb:  We have to work to keep up with “they.” 
Newman:  It's interesting to be on this board.  
Webb:  It's a plural. My God.  I'm an old English teacher. I can't call you 
“they.” 
Newman:  Yeah, yeah. That is hard. I've been on this board for years and so 
when we get one of these cases, it's almost always assigned to me 
and then I've got a struggle with how do you talk about a girl as 
“they.” 
Webb:  As “they.” No. It's kind of hard. Okay, so he, she or it. “They.” No. 
That's not it.  
Newman:  The issues for kids really do concern us because we think we were 
so fortunate that we were treated very well as— 
Webb:  Oh, so well.  
Newman:  —teenagers in school.  
Webb:  Well, walking down the aisles in high school, holding hands. To 
me, that says all those kids that we— we were really a part of the 
system and they didn't care. They liked us both.  
Raiskin:  It's so different than the standard story where things were much 
harder back then and are way easier for kids now and you're telling 
somewhat a different story.  
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Webb:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Newman:  We were lucky.  
Webb:  We were lucky. We really were.  
Raiskin:  Would you have advice for a young person who's watching your 
interview now?  
Webb:  Yes. My advice would be to never forget that you're a human being 
with wants and needs. If your need is to be a person who wants to 
be a lesbian then we will help you or we'll find places to help you 
because they are now available to have people who are going to be 
supportive of you every day. If you're not ready to even think 
about that or if it appears too dangerous, if your parents are still 
involved with you in your life— I certainly had a lot of clients 
whose parents said, "You are not going to do that in my house. It's 
ugly. It's bad. It's sick."  
 I really had to develop a way to talk to these kids because they 
really felt lost. I would ask them, "Well, if you don't want to go 
back to your parents' house, let's make a plan for how you are 
going to stay off the street because I'm worried about you being 
hurt or are you being given some bad drugs or you have been 
introduced to people who are very seductive. But then also what 
you don't know behind the curtain is that they're very cruel and, 
really, couldn't care less about what happens to you."   
 I have had lots of thoughts about that because we see lots of kids on 
the street and we've got to have a better system, much better 
system. If parents say, "You got to go someplace." When I was 
younger, when I was in my fifteens and sixteens, I also knew at the 
time that if I acted out on this, all my parents had do was to say, 
"You're going to the institution." There was no prob— There was no 
possibility. So yes, I had to hide and I didn't do it very well, did I?  
Newman:  No. Although, you know, Liz always has said since we've been 
together and we are a very good couple. We've never had serious 
relationship problems. I think we both were extremely grateful to 
be back together and it's been as good as we thought it was going 
to be.  
Webb:  Yes.  
Newman:  She always says to me, "Well, we should have run away. We 
should have taken my father's car— 
Webb:  That's what I always tell her.  
Newman:  —and run away to San Francisco."  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  I don't agree with her.  
Webb:  Well, for all those years I thought that was a really nice solution. 
Let's just take your father's car— 
Newman:  Take my father's car.   
Webb:  —and we both can drive and we're going to San Francisco and 
we're going to have just a wonderful time.  
Newman:  But I'm not so sure we would have been a happy couple then. I 
think we were young and unformed and didn't really know what 
we want. She wanted to  become a doctor and go to India.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  You saw what happened to that idea.  
Webb:  That was it. I wanted to go to India.  
Newman:  I think that we are probably stronger as a couple because our lives 
worked the way they did. We got married, we had children, we 
had lots of jobs. In fact, we both had pretty good jobs.  
Webb:  We had lots of children and now we have grandchildren.  
Newman:  Then we got together and realized that this relationship was way 
better than the previous relationships we'd been involved in and it 
was worth working on this one. I do think some maturity went into 
it. 
Webb:  Did happen.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What relationship advice would you give? You seem very well 
situated to give that advice.   
Newman:  What advice would you give? You're the psychologist. You answer 
that question.  
Webb:  Well, I talked. Now it's your turn. What advice would you give?  
Newman:  Well, I think a sense of humor helps.  
Webb:  A sense of humor is so crucial.  
Newman:  We both laugh a lot and sometimes  it helps to be able— sometimes  
we say to each other we need to laugh about this, especially 
memory loss, or we're going to have to cry about this.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  We were both pretty set in our ways. We were fifty-one and fifty-
two when we moved in together.  
Webb:  That's right.  
Newman:  Liz puts her shoes under the bed. I put my shoes in the closet. That 
really bugs me though. Shoes under the bed.  
Webb:  This is the first time she's ever told me this.  
Newman:  It will never stop. It's always going to be that way. You do have to 
have some tolerance.  
Webb:  You could move them to the closet.  
Newman:  No, I've tried and you said, "No. I've always had my shoes under 
my bed." It's all right.   
Webb:  I don't remember that.  
Newman:  We have a long bedspread and you  can't see them too much.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Long:  Did you go see the movie Carol  with Cate Blanchett?  
Newman:  Sure.  
Webb:  Yes. 
Long:  That takes place in a time when both of you were coming of age 
and starting your families. What did you think of that movie? What 
was your response to that movie?  
Newman:  Well, I liked the movie. These relationships that start and they're 
instantly a fire and then go— it’s hard for me to believe in those 
being long and durable relationships. I guess that's where I come 
from.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Long:  What about the time period though? The mores  and— 
Newman:  Oh yeah. The time period— 
Long:  —how they had to struggle.  
Newman:  —was extremely familiar. Yes. I do think we did some of that for a 
while when we were together as kids. Liz was  always looking for a 
job because they had no money. They were truly poor. She got this  
job staying with a little old lady who lived near her in a house by 
herself, but she was afraid to be alone in the dark.  
Webb:  Two blocks away.  
Newman:  So Liz would go over there and spend the night and then go to 
school in the morning. How fortunate for us.  
Webb:  We had to do with big furnace, too. 
Newman:  I could go and spend the night with her. She would say her friend 
was coming to spend the night with this nonjudgmental woman. I 
don't think she knew what was up with us.  
Webb:  She had no idea.  
Newman:  That was this wonderful opportunity. Although, it was a twin bed. 
It was a little crowded.  
Webb:  We made good use of it.  
Newman:  But there was a place where we were certainly playing the role of 
just two high school friends. I think we did quite a bit of that.  
Webb:  Yes, we did. We certainly did. But then an awful lot of kids at 
school just took us for granted. I never felt like anybody stopped 
me in the hall and said, "You're just an evil minded, dirty woman." 
That never happened.   
Long:  But do you think that they quite understood what your relationship 
might have been like or were they just thinking of you as really 
close platonic friends?  
Webb:  I don't know. It could be both.  
Newman:  Could be both.  
Raiskin:  I don't know. That yearbook signature, “I hope you have a nice life 
together.” 
Newman:  I hope you and Isabel have a nice life together. I know.  
Webb:  Oh yeah.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Newman:  I know. I think— 
Webb:  They figured it out. We were both— 
Newman:  We were both good students.  
Webb:  Oh yeah.  
Newman:  I think the people we hung out with, they understood. Don't you 
think?  
Webb:  Oh yeah.  
Speaker 5:  Have you been to any school reunions?   
Newman:  I went once the year that it was twenty-five years. Not together. We 
have talked about going together. We have never done that. The 
year was twenty-five years. Both my husband and I went to our 
high school graduation reunion or high school  class reunions. It 
wasn't much fun. Liz— 
Raiskin:  It would be amazing for you to go now and see your classmates 
from that time.  
Newman:  There wouldn't be many of them left. I don't think.  
Webb:  There'd be us.  
Newman:  We have talked about it, but we have  to go all the way to Michigan 
on that particular weekend. We do go to Michigan because we still 
have— Liz has brothers who live there so we go there still.  
Webb:  And sisters.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What have we not touched on that— I'm sure there's a lot we 
haven't touched on, but something that you would really like to 
make sure we hear.  
Webb:  Well, I think that a healthy old age is a wonderful thing to be. We 
have lots and lots of memories. That year that we spent in Europe 
was a highlight of my life and  I will always be grateful to Barb for 
that. We did come home a little earlier than I would have picked, 
but it was important to come home.   
Newman:  We ran out of money, actually. We had to come home.  
Webb:  Well, we would have worked on something else. But staying in 
hostels is a real experience. I don't know if you guys have done that 
or not, but it was wonderful for us. We would stay in a hostel for 
about three days and then we were off to a new place and then 
we'd stay there three days and we were off to another new place 
and then another new place and then another new place. For me, it 
was like heaven. It was wonderful. My clients couldn't call me. I 
had prepared them all, giving them all the things that they needed 
to do and this list of people that they  could see during that year or 
forever if that's what they wanted to do.  
Newman:  I think if I had any advice for people that it's good to have shared 
interests. Liz and I both love to read and we read different things, 
but we read every day.  
Webb:  Voraciously.  
Newman:  Our whole evening is about reading.  
Webb:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Newman:  We travel a lot and travel together.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  We're going on a cruise to Cuba in February.  
Webb:  Cuba!   
Newman:  We still do that. Although, we don't do quite the same level of 
active travel that we used to do.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  I also think we do a lot of talking. There's a lot of— 
Webb:  We talk, talk, talk, talk, talk.  
Newman:  We go out to dinner sometimes and look at the people at the table 
next to us who say not one word to each other through the whole 
meal and we say to each other, "How can this be?"  
Webb:  How can this be? They're supposed to be caring about one another, 
but they don't talk. It's still a puzzle  to me after all these years.  
Raiskin:  Barb, do you have any advice for a queer identifying young 
person?  
Newman:  Well, I have really learned that it's important to tell who you are. I 
learned that when I worked at the job where I had to pretend I was 
heterosexual. One of the things that I think, and I know it's 
dangerous sometimes to tell who you are, is that one of the ways to 
combat prejudice against gay people is to let people know you are 
gay. Because when I taught at Trend  College, my students always  
wanted to talk about gay issues in employment just because there 
was a lot of that in the newspaper. They'd say to me, "I've never 
met a gay person." I would say, "Oh yes, you have. You just don't 
know that some of the people you've met are gay." That was  just 
like, I wanted to go  [puts hands over mouth].  
Webb:  She'd come home  and tell me.  
Newman:  But I do think— 
Webb:  You can't believe it.  
Newman:  I do think it matters that in our neighborhood, we've lived on the 
same block for twenty-seven  years. Our lawn is mowed. Our house 
is painted. I don't think anybody, although, I do notice, I'm the 
gardener, and people come by, who've recently moved to the 
neighborhood, and they stop and talk and I introduce  myself and I 
say, "My partner is Liz and she's a psychologist." I used to say that. 
I don't say that anymore. “My partner is Liz and she's in the 
house.” And then they say, "Oh, I've heard about you." So someone 
has said, "The lesbians live down there." It's very clear, but that's 
fine. I'm glad they know.  
Webb: We don't get smears on our door.  
Newman:  No. 
Webb:  We don't get windows broken. We don't get things stolen. We are 
just part of the neighborhood.  
Newman:  Yeah. I think that's a very healthy thing. I think keeping it a secret 
is, in the long run, not a good idea for us as a demographic in our 
society that we need to not— I don't say I'm a lesbian the first 
moment I meet someone. But I try to think of a way after they 
know me a bit to say “My partner, she” or—  
Raiskin:  Do you use the word wife?  
Newman:  We don't like the word wife much. We've been wives.  
Webb:  We've been wives. We don't want to be wives anymore.  
Newman:  We call each other spouses sometimes.  
Webb:  Spouses. Spouses is good.  
Newman:  Some of our lesbian friends who've never been married call each 
other wives. They've never been married to men. Our husbands 
weren't abusive men.  
Webb:  No, they weren't abusive. They were just men.  
Newman:  Men.  
Webb:  I still will always remember one of the last things that Dick and I 
shared was him telling me that he was going to entrance Elizabeth, 
who was one of my kids at school. All I could think about was 
good luck. She was seventeen  years old. He was thirty-five and I 
thought, "They want to do this. I'm going to be free."  
Long:  What happened to them?  
Newman:  He is dead.  
Long:  Did they get married?  
Webb:  Yes. 
Newman:  Oh yeah.   
Webb:  Oh yes. Oh yes. Very much so.  
Newman:  She's still alive— 
Webb:  She's still going.  
Newman:  —and lives on the coast. She doesn't live here, but he died three 
years ago.  
Webb:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  If you were to think of a name for a movie of your romantic 
relationship and your lives, what would the title be?  
Webb:  The road to sanity. The road to love. The road to goodness in your 
life. The road to happiness. That's what I'd say. How about you, 
sweetheart? 
Newman:  I don't think I have any titles as good as that one. I do have a funny 
little story to tell you though about the grandpa who died. As  I told 
you earlier, he was the great white hunter. He could shoot any 
animal that ever existed on this earth or catch it with a fishing rod. 
We were with the two of the grandchildren he shares with Liz, 
whom we have spent probably more time with than any of our 
grandchildren.  
 Their mom was in Oregon with their grandpa who was dying. We 
got an email in the night that said grandpa had died. They knew 
their grandpa was dying and they were probably eleven  and 
thirteen  maybe.   
Webb:  Yeah.  
Newman:  Young teenagers. We said to each other we really probably ought to 
talk to the kids. We sat them down in the living room and we said, 
"We need to tell you something."  
Webb:  This is a wonderful story.  
Newman:  We said, "Grandpa died last night in the night." They were quiet 
and a little tearful. The younger one, the boy said, "So what's next?" 
I said, "Oh, there's going to be a memorial service and you'll get to 
go and people will talk about Grandpa." "No, no," He said, "What 
happens to Grandpa?"  
Webb:  I said the other thing.  
Newman:  Oh, well, yeah. I said, "We don't know. People have different 
ideas." They had actually just become Catholics and they’d gone to 
catechism. I thought this is a big question. I said, "Some people 
think you go to heaven and you're with God. Some people think 
that it's just the end of your life. Some people think that you come 
back maybe as something else, maybe as an insect or something." 
Oh, I said, "So what did you learn in catechism?" I'm thinking I 
better get it back here. They said, "We didn't learn anything in 
catechism."  
Webb:  It was a wonderful. Barb and I broke out in laughter at these two 
wonderful young people. Nothing.   
Newman:  The older one, the girl, said, "Well, I think what happens when you 
die, it's just like when before you were  born. It's nothing. It's not 
bad. It's not good."  
Webb:  Don't you think that's beautiful?  
Newman:  It's just nothing. The boy said, "I think Grandpa will come back as 
something else. I think he'll come back as an elk."  
Webb:  As a deer. 
Newman:  No, as  an elk. “He will be the smartest elk.”  
Webb:  I thought these were perfect. We all laughed. All four of us just 
laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh.  
Long:  The Grandpa was your ex-husband?  
Newman:  Exactly.  
Long:  Okay.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  The great white hunter.  
Webb:  The great white hunter. You bet.  
Newman:  His wife is still alive and well.  
Webb:  His wife is still alive.  
Newman:  Living on the coast.   
Webb:  The interesting thing about that relationship is from going from 
being my favorite person to being— she didn't ever want to talk to 
me anymore.  
Newman:  In fact, when I came to Oregon, one of Liz's daughters came up to 
visit, flew here, and they wanted to go to the coast to spend time 
with their dad. I would let them use my car because Liz had a truck 
that she wasn't very eager for anyone else to drive. They went once 
there with my car and got there and realized they were missing the 
key to the trunk. They called us and my first reaction was to say, 
"Well, we could drive down with a key to the trunk." Oh, no! 
Webb: No! 
Newman:  They won't let you drive up our driveway.  
Webb:  They won't let you drive up our driveway.  
Newman:  Because we would be bringing— 
Webb:  Evil.  
Newman:  —lesbian evil to their house.  
Webb:  But then you know what we discovered? Barb and I— 
Newman:  Then I remembered there was a button— 
Webb:  There was a key.   
Newman:  No, there wasn't. There was a button on it. It was a Honda. There 
was something in the car itself that you could push and make the 
trunk open up. Yeah. We didn't have to drive down there.  
Webb:  We didn't have to drive down there.  
Newman:  But now, talk about prejudice.  
Webb:  Talk about prejudice. That's one of the few times that even within 
my own family that I've ever met that.  
Newman:  Now, she comes to our house, but we're never supposed to go to 
hers.  
Long:  She was the one who had attitude, not the ex-husband? 
Newman:  They both did.  
Webb:  They both did.  
Long:  They both did.  
Newman:  Yeah. That was what? Forty  years ago?  
Webb:  Yeah. Forty  years ago. She's still in that place. Yeah.  
Newman:  Prejudice is alive and well.  
Webb:  Prejudice is alive and well.  
Raiskin:  But you've clearly thrived.  
Newman:  Yes, we've done fine.   
Webb:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much for such a beautiful interview.  
Long:  Yeah, thank you.  
Newman:  Well, thank you. This has been fun.  
Webb:  Thank you.  
 
   [END OF INTERVIEW]  