 
Long: This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Basja  Samuelson on August 29, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts, in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Basja, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Samuelson:  I agree.   
Long: Thank you very much.  
Raiskin: Thank you.  
Long: Let's start with just a basic question. Can you tell us when and 
where you were born and something about your growing up years?  
Samuelson:  I was born in 1945 in Weehawken, New Jersey and that's right 
across the river from New York City. But when I was quite young, 
we moved to Pennsylvania and we lived in a rural area near 
Carlisle where my dad worked for a quartz crystal industry there in 
Carlisle, Piezo Crystal Company. I lived there, grew up there, went 
to school there, and first grade through twelfth  grade all in the 
same building, quite rural community. It was great as a child 
because I got to be outdoors a lot. And I had a friend who was in 4-
H, so her dad had the farm and we'd go there and play in the farm 
and he gave us each a newborn calf to raise. And we were in the 4-
H and went around to the different fairgrounds and showed the 
animals and that was great. And then, after I graduated, I went to 
college in Ohio. I went to Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, 
and was there for five years and moved to Philadelphia after that.  
Raiskin: Can we back up to all your schooling? What kind of a kid were you 
and what was your social scene when you  were in say, middle 
school, high school?  
Samuelson:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I was a tomboy. I played all the sports, 
loved softball, basketball, ice skating. It was a great place, 
Pennsylvania, in the winter time because it got really, really cold  
and the creeks and the lakes would freeze and you could just skate 
for miles up the creeks and so it was good. But socially, not so good 
being in a rural area like that and being like— we were like the only 
Jewish family probably for miles and miles around. That was a 
little hard, being Jewish in that community, but I survived. I 
survived.  
Long: Did you  experience discrimination?  
Samuelson:  Yeah, the usual. Back in that day there was no really separation of 
church and state or school. Everything was Christian oriented. The 
Christmas pageants, the Easter egg hunts, everything. And no one 
even thought about it. It's just how it was.  
Raiskin: And you were born just at the very end of the war.  
Samuelson:  Right.  
Raiskin: Did your parents seek out a Jewish community of any  kind?  
Samuelson:  The closest Jewish community was about twenty  miles away in 
Harrisburg, but my dad needed for us to live near where his work 
was, so that's why we lived out there. But after I left, after my 
brother and I left for college, they did move to Harrisburg so that 
they could become part of the Jewish community there. That was a 
lot better for them. Then I lived in Philadelphia for a few years.  
Raiskin:  What did you major in in college? What were your interests?   
Samuelson:  Yeah, I tended to do everything that my brother did. Whatever  he 
did then I wanted to do. I followed him to the same college. I 
majored in the same subject, biology, but when he graduated, he 
got the male privilege of being encouraged and supported to go to 
medical school, which  he did do and then became a doctor. 
Whereas when I graduated, I did not know what to do or where to 
go. I ended up in Philadelphia and there were some rough years 
there in Philadelphia and from like '67 to— for the next couple of 
years.  I ended up— I got a job working for the welfare department 
in Philadelphia of all things. But then I ended up just going to 
Drexel for a year to get a master's degree in library science so that I 
was able to get a job and I worked at Temple University in the 
Urban Archives for a while, and then I worked at Free Library of 
Philadelphia for a little while, and then I got in a very, very bad car 
accident. I wanted to escape from Philadelphia and move out West 
where there was— things we heard were better. But I was trying to 
teach my first girlfriend  how to drive a car so we could— we got a 
van, we were going to go move out to California or something and 
I was trying to teach her how to drive and she ran off the road and 
hit a tree and I got both my legs broken and then I ended up in a 
hospital for quite a long time. So, that completely changed my life.  
Raiskin:  When did you know you were a lesbian, come out as a lesbian?  
Samuelson:  You know, I knew from the time I was a child. Yeah, but Girl 
Scouts, Girl Scout camp and the counselors, all that stuff. But there 
was no lesbian or feminist movement. There were a few years of  
extreme mental suffering, emotional suffering, not knowing what 
to do with it. I wasn't able to do the  heterosexual bonding thing. I 
was pretty lonely, had a lot  of loneliness. Eventually, in the ‘70s, as 
you all know, things started to change and get better.  
Raiskin:  Earlier in your life did you have fairly negative understandings of 
what homosexuality was?  
Samuelson:  Oh yeah.  
Raiskin:  Where did you get those ideas? 
Samuelson:  You know, they're just— nobody  even said lesbian. There was 
really just like one path and one path only was to get a boyfriend or 
a husband, get married, and if you didn't do that you just had 
nothing. There was nothing. Eventually when the bookstores and 
the newspapers started to come along, then I had some hope that 
things were going to— that there might be a different path possible, 
which there was.  
Long:  Were you aware of any of the early lesbian pulp novels of the '50s 
and early '60s?  
Samuelson:  No. No. But— 
Long:  What did your parents make of you?  
Samuelson:  When? At which point?  
Long:  When you were growing up and when you went to college.   
Samuelson:  It's hard to say. My mom was always disappointed in me because I 
wasn't feminine and she really, really wanted to force me into that 
mold with the clothes, the hair, and she tried to get me to wear 
makeup and everything and I just totally resisted, so she was 
always pretty disappointed in me.  
Long:  What about your teachers? What did they think of you?  
Samuelson:  They thought I was smart,  you know, smart Jewish kid. I got 
recognition for my athleticism and for being smart. But in terms of 
doing the proper female conditioning thing,  I was not succeeding. 
Things have changed now. It's too bad I wasn't born a little later in 
life. 
Raiskin:  Had you thought that maybe you would try to go to medical school 
or use your biology degree?  
Samuelson:  I don't know that I ever really had a clear path. I never really knew 
what I could do. I just followed along and whatever he did. But 
then the difference between seeing how him as a male got support 
and how I just was expected to really find somebody and get 
married. That was it. But I never did. Never got married. And 
never— 
Raiskin:  So you had some mental anguish about not wanting to follow that 
path.  
Samuelson:  About my inability to follow the heterosexual path. You know, 
couldn't do it and didn't do it. There was a lot of mental and  
emotional suffering that went on for years and years and it was the 
Women's Movement and the bookstores that really came along to 
save me.  
Raiskin:  What were some of the bookstores that you remember?  
Samuelson:  Even Harrisburg, Pennsylvania where I ended up back in 
Harrisburg after my car accident in Philadelphia because I had my 
parents came down there to Philadelphia where I was and they 
brought me in and I moved back up to Harrisburg in an ambulance 
and was in a rehab hospital up there for about a year. And 
Harrisburg, it was a small town and small city in Pennsylvania. 
They did have hippies and women's bookstore and there were— 
you start to see the magazines Off Our Backs  and in Philadelphia 
and Washington, D.C. there was more action activities starting to 
happen,  and you could travel to those places and go to concerts, 
and all women's concerts, and that kind of thing.  
 Eventually I met someone and even though I still my legs were 
messed up, I had crutches. I met someone and we moved to Florida 
and lived on Sanibel  Island down there and stayed there for a year. 
And at that time, 1977, I'd say that was, '76, '77, Anita Bryant was in 
Florida where we were. She was in Miami and even the county that 
we lived in was very redneck, right-wing. I lived with a lesbian 
friend  of mine and another couple of younger lesbians in a house 
that one of them's mom had built on that island. And we lived 
there for a year and started getting harassment from local 
teenagers. They would come drive back our little sandy driveway  
that we had and throw stuff at the house. Yeah, curses, everything. 
It was not good.  
 Actually though, my friend and I, we went to Miami to handout 
leaflets and flyers and talk about the situation and about Anita 
Bryant. And I don't know, there was legislative things going on and 
stuff. But, eventually what happened there in Florida was— oh, 
there was a good women's softball team there. And that was the 
primary social venue was the softball, women's softball, lesbian 
softball teams. But, in fact, after one of the softball games, I was 
going out with the pitcher of the softball team. And after one of the 
games, we took our six pack of beer and went to one of the beaches 
and it was nighttime and we went in the water and before you 
knew it, we were just floating in the water. And the police came 
and I got arrested.  
Raiskin:  For what?  
Samuelson:  They said, "Well, I'm not going to charge y'all with indecent 
exposure because women can't be indecently exposed, so I'm going 
to charge you with disrupting the peace," or whatever it was. 
“Violation of the peace” so I got taken to jail and stuck around 
there long enough to take the case to court because I didn't think 
that was right, “disrupting the peace.” They were the ones who 
were disrupting my peace. It was nighttime, just floating in the 
water, that was it.   
 I sat there. I decided to defend myself, so I went and got the law 
books and looked up all the statutes and this and that, and planned 
my defense in front of them. At night. I'd think of my defense, what 
I was going to say. But when it came time for my case to be called 
up in front of the judge, they said, "You can come up here and 
we're dismissing your case. We don't want to set a precedent, and 
we don't accept that kind of thing around here. And we want you 
to leave  and don't ever come back." That was it. And then we 
moved to Eugene.  
Raiskin:  How did you— that’s amazing, yeah— 
Samuelson:  That was it for Florida. What?  
Raiskin:  How did you hear about Eugene?  
Samuelson:  Well, my friend Paddy that I was living with down there, she knew 
someone who was living in Eugene. She had met her in Gainesville, 
like years before, and now she was living in Eugene. We had a 
contact here in Eugene. We just packed up the car, loaded 
everything we had and drove on out here.  
Long: What year was that?  
Samuelson:  1977.  
Raiskin:  What had you heard about Eugene that— 
Samuelson:  We heard that that's where the lesbians were going and that's 
where we wanted to go. So we escaped from Florida and moved to  
Eugene. We got here and the first place we landed was Trudy's 
Ranch. Do you know anybody that know about Trudy and Trudy's 
ranch? She was like a cowgirl, cowboy. Lived on a ranch outside of 
Eugene. I can't remember the name of the town. It was like an area, 
but I don't remember the name of it. But she had a ranch and a lot 
of lesbians ended up there first, when they first landed here. She 
had a house and then there were a lot of outbuildings, like little 
cabins. And we stayed in one of the cabins until we made contacts 
in town and then moved into a big house on, I think it was on Fifth 
Street. 
Long:  Was Trudy— Did she set up her area for lesbians specifically?  
Samuelson:  Yeah. Yep.  
Long:  So she was a lesbian?  
Samuelson:  Yep.  
Raiskin:  Wow. I'd like to know that , too. 
Samuelson:  Yeah. Trudy's Ranch. Anybody who was here at that time would 
know about it.  
Raiskin:  Wow.  
Samuelson:  Trudy's Ranch.  
Raiskin:  Did you meet other women out there?   
Samuelson:  Yep. And that was our first— getting settled in Eugene. I 
eventually did get a job with  the Bookmobile program. I felt really 
fortunate. I kind of wanted to be in one of the collectives, like 
Starflower  or whatever. I knew people who did that, or the bagel 
company. A friend worked there. I don't think that was lesbian 
though. Humble Bagel. But I got that job working with the 
Bookmobile, so that was good for me.  
Raiskin:  Was that through the city library?  
Samuelson:  It was called Lane County Library. It was separate from  the Eugene 
Public Library. We had our own collection, our own routes. We 
drove to Deadwood, Mapleton, we went all the way to Florence, we 
went up the McKenzie  River. We drove all over. I think we had like 
about a dozen stops that we went to every week.  
Raiskin:  Would people request books?  
Samuelson:  Oh, yeah, people would request books. Actually, that's how I got an 
entree into the Eugene Public Library because I would go over 
there and use the computers and their larger collection to get 
special things that people requested. Then I got into doing the 
inter-library loans at the Eugene Public Library. I ended up with a 
couple— two jobs because I worked half time for the Bookmobile. 
And then I worked at the public library, Eugene public library also.  
Raiskin:  What was it like going to— 
Samuelson:  Did that for twelve  years.   
Raiskin:  What was it like going to small towns and— 
Samuelson:  It was great. Really felt appreciated, you know? People were really 
appreciative and I— Actually, one of the fun things that I got to do 
there was I talked them into giving me  my own small budget for a 
small press, small presses.  I would go to Mother Kali's  and I would 
go to Peralandra, which was the new age bookstore. And I would 
actually even go to the Christian bookstore because there was quite 
a few Christians out in the rural area. And me being me, it's like, 
"Oh, they get to have their books too." So I would get to buy the 
best sellers, Christian romances, and then I'd get the latest new age 
books, and then I'd get all the lesbian books at Mother Kali's and 
really spiced up our little collection that we had.  
Raiskin:  Did people check out the lesbian books?  
Samuelson:  Oh, definitely. They were so happy. Yeah. It was a little bit of 
subversiveness there on my part.  
Raiskin:  Did you meet lesbians in these small towns or were they straight 
people— 
Samuelson:  Ah, not too much. It was a lot of just regular old rural people and 
quite a few back-to-the-land  hippies, you know, come out of the 
woods with their milk crates and fill them up with books and— 
Long:  Did you go to Alpha Farm? 
Samuelson:  Yep.   
Long:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. 
Samuelson:  We had a stop right there at Alpha, at their cafe that they had in 
town next to the post office. We didn't go to the actual farm, but we 
went to their store that they had.  
Long:  Alpha— Alphabet? Something.  
Samuelson:  Yeah, Alphabet. Yep. Florence, before they got a library, we 
stopped in Florence, so that was good. I worked, I volunteered at 
Mother Kali's too.  
Raiskin:  Tell us what Mother Kali's was like then.  
Samuelson:  Mother Kali's was really fun. It was a big hub of lesbians and all the 
books and all the activity and the bulletin boards and everything 
that was going on. You could just go there and feel like you were 
really part of the growing lesbian community here.  
Raiskin:  And you lived  near that? Near it?  
Samuelson:  I did. I lived in West Eugene the whole time that I lived here. Once 
I was on Fourth Street. Then I was on Fifth Street, then I was on 
Polk Street. And so all right in that West Eugene area, right near 
Mother Kali's actually. That was good. Those were the good years. 
But then we lost our funding for the Bookmobile program and I 
could not get another job. I tried. I stayed here for a year and then I 
moved to Portland to look for work and took a bunch of computer 
classes up there and ended up finally getting a job in the  
automation section of Washington County Library System. And I 
worked there for ten years and then retired in the year 2000.  
Raiskin:  Well, backing up to when you were still here. You came out with a 
girlfriend.  
Samuelson:  Yep.  
Raiskin:  And you stayed with her for a while?  
Samuelson:  Yeah, we helped each other get here and then we separated. That's 
a common story. And she went her way and I went my way and 
we're still friends and she eventually moved to Portland also. We're 
still friends. It's been like forty  years. But, I liked my years in 
Eugene.  
Raiskin:  Did you play sports here?  
Samuelson:  I did not because I had a bad leg from my car accident, so no sports 
for me. But I did have a little gas powered scooter that I would ride 
from home to work and back all the time.  
Raiskin:  And what about the Riviera Room?  
Samuelson:  Yep. We'd go to the Riviera Room for play pool, drink, meet the 
other newcomers. And, oh yeah, you had mentioned that the 
Baleboostehs  is like a— I'm Jewish and we met the other— soon 
found the other Jewish lesbians and started little groups to do 
Hanukkah and Seders for Passover every year. That was a good 
thing. The little group of Jewish lesbians hung together.   
Long:  Can you tell us your impressions of Eugene when you first came 
here? Not just to the lesbian community but what the town was 
like?  
Samuelson:  Yeah. Yeah. It was a lot of hippies, and music, and fairs, had a lot of 
outdoor things. I think we came in the summertime, so there was a 
lot of art, music, people, and the little cafes, which we enjoyed, and 
it was just like a nice easygoing town. Liberal, which we were 
looking for, so we were happy. That's about it.  
Raiskin:  What year did you move to Portland?  
Samuelson:  I moved to Portland in  1988 right after our Lane County 
Bookmobile program, after we closed, and then I stuck around for a 
year and then I moved.  
Raiskin:  Did you find the Portland lesbian community different?  
Samuelson:  Well, it's different because it's such a big city. It took me actually a 
couple of years to settle in and get to know enough people that I 
felt like it was comfortable. Like here, everywhere you go, you see 
other lesbians, you'd run into somebody every  single place you'd 
go here. I liked that, the friendliness of Eugene because it took me a 
while to get settled into Portland. But now it's good. In fact, there's 
still a lot of connections between the lesbian community in Portland 
and lesbian community in Eugene, and particularly the Jewish 
women. We all know each other. A  lot of people go back and forth. 
I come down here and they come up and visit me and we go to 
different things together and so it just feels like a good connection.   
Raiskin:  So you were in Portland during Measure 9?  
Samuelson:  Right.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?  
Samuelson:  Yeah. You know, that was pretty scary. I was working at the 
Washington County Library System then and I came out as a way 
to let them know that there is actual lesbians amongst them because 
everybody I worked with was straight and  Christian. Very straight 
and very Christian. I felt a little scared about that and it was pretty 
uncomfortable actually. But I put together— I used their computer 
system to build a bibliography of all the lesbian books that were 
available in the Washington County Library System. And I put 
together a big, big bibliography and I surreptitiously used their 
photocopy machine to make lots of copies of it, distributed it. I 
even sent a copy to the state library in Salem.  
Raiskin:  Who did you distribute the list to? 
Samuelson:  Yeah, I gave it out, just anybody, everywhere. And at that time  
there were not so many lesbian-themed books. You could 
practically get them all in one pamphlet.  
Raiskin:  And what was your thinking about exposing people to these 
books?  
Samuelson: I just wanted people to know there are resources, there are books 
and if you want to educate yourself, here's the list. And a lot of  
them— quite a few had to do with families accepting their gay 
children and— 
Raiskin:  That must've been very useful to PFLAG and organizations like 
that.  
Samuelson:  I think it was. Years went by, things changed.  
Raiskin:  You were also in Portland during the various marriage equality 
moments when they were able to get married. Do you remember 
what that was like?  
Samuelson:  You know, I personally don't believe in marriage. So, to me, the 
whole thing about the marriage and the military is kind of anti-
revolutionary. I'm  not really— 
Raiskin:  I mean, access for gay and lesbian people to be in the military and 
to have marriage, it's not an exciting revolutionary — 
Samuelson:  Not for me. I know a lot of people who are like, "Oh, let's just get 
married and join the military." But that's not for me. I don't even 
believe in it, so— 
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Samuelson:  But that's good for other people who want it, I guess.  
Raiskin:  How would you say things have changed historically when you 
think about how you live now and how it was when you were in 
Florida or when you came here in 1977?   
Samuelson:  Yeah. It's changed so much. Lesbianism has kind  of gone from 
being like a political outlaw kind of movement to so mainstream 
and almost fetishized, it's hard to even know what's what anymore. 
But I personally relate to the radical feminism and the land 
movements. I just came from going to the OreGaia  up there in 
Estacada, there's a land called the We'Moon Land and I was just up 
there for a festival that they started up three years ago after 
Michigan closed. The Michigan Women's Music Festival ended and 
they told the people, participants there, go back to your 
communities, go back to your homes and start festivals and 
gatherings and get to  know your own communities. That's what 
they've done and they've done a really good job. Very good. And 
there's still a lot of conversation that went on about radical 
feminism  and the land communities. That's kind of where I am.  
Raiskin:  Is it a music festival?  
Samuelson:  You know, they have music, but they also have lots of workshops 
and we talked about immigration and about the trans issues that 
are going on and about the future of separatism and lesbian lands 
and I learned a lot and made more connections.  
Raiskin:  What's the age range of women who go to that?  
Samuelson:  There was a big range. There were, I would say from twenties to 
eighties, uh-huh [affirmative]. And I  have a girlfriend who just 
lived WomanShare  for a year. I learned more about what's going on 
down there.   
Raiskin:  Were there younger women interested in separatism?  
Samuelson:  There are. And there's ones who are— have been already 
transitioned into men and have de-transitioned back to women. 
That's a bit of a leading edge of what's happening now. De-
transitioning.  
Raiskin:  Wow.  
Samuelson:  Yeah. It's a— 
Raiskin:  New world. So in that context you can talk to younger people and 
see what they're excited about.  
Samuelson:  Right. Things are changing, but it's good to see. It's heartening to 
see younger women. There were like almost 200 women there and 
their calm and understanding that draws that group together is 
radical feminism.  
Raiskin: Interesting.  
Samuelson:  Everybody buys into it.  
Raiskin:  And what are people reading these days? Do you know?  
Samuelson:  What are people reading? I don't know. I don't even know. I don't 
even know. The Internet. 
Raiskin:  Yeah, right. You've been retired for quite a while now. What have 
you done in your retirement?   
Samuelson:  I have a big old house that I own in Portland and I became an 
official host family, but just myself being the family, a host family 
for international students who come to study English at a couple 
universities near where I live. I started doing that and I've been 
doing that now.  
Raiskin:  What drew you to that? Why are you interested?  
Samuelson:  I don't know. I just always thought one of the things I'd like to do 
would be work at a hostel, to meet people, travelers from other 
countries. I just ended  up becoming my own hostel. Right now, I 
have two young women from Thailand who rent rooms from me 
and I've just had like dozens of people stay with me.  
Raiskin:  And how long do they stay with you?  
Samuelson:  Various times, from a couple months to a couple of years.  
Raiskin: Oh my god.  
Samuelson:  Yeah. One of the young women from Thailand who's with me now, 
she's been living at my house for two years. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Are you out to them? Because it's culturally different— 
Samuelson:  I don't say anything, but I don't really change anything that I do, 
but I'm not making out with my girlfriend on the couch or 
something. We keep that in the bedroom, but I don't know.  
Raiskin:  Interesting.   
Long:  Are the students roomers or do they get board too? Do you cook 
them— 
Samuelson:  When I first started out as a host, they require you to provide them 
with two meals a day. That lasted about six months and then I just 
couldn't deal with that anymore. I went out on my own and just  got 
people from Craigslist and part of what I offer is a low rent and 
they have to provide their own food and cook their own meals. 
That's pretty good. Most of them either enjoy cooking but they go 
to the Asian store and buy all their special foods and they cook or 
they— I live in an area where there's like a million restaurants and 
they eat out and so that works out.  
Raiskin:  And you share the kitchen space?  
Samuelson:  Yeah, we share the kitchen.  
Raiskin: That's cool.  
Samuelson:  It's nice.  
Raiskin:  Do you  have any thoughts about aging as a lesbian?  
Samuelson:  Yes, I do because I want to be able to stay in my house. And I 
belong to that group. We have an older lesbian group up there now 
called LOCA, L-O-C-A, Lesbians Of a Certain Age. They've 
organized themselves and we meet once a month to talk about 
different subjects and so on. There's quite a few— There's a large 
older lesbian population in Portland now, so people talk about it.  
They're thinking about it, figuring out ways of helping each other. 
In that sense, I feel like there will be help if I need help.  
Raiskin:  What kinds of ideas are people coming up with?  
Samuelson:  A lot of people now, if they have some kind of a medical situation, 
they use these online things called Lots of Helping Hands is one. 
There's a couple of them that help you organize people to help you. 
Like, you can sign up for helping them with transportation, or 
food, or this or that. And it seems like there's enough of a 
community now. It's not that hard to get people to help each other. 
Raiskin:  So it's more than just your intimate group of friends. It's people you 
might not know.  
Samuelson:  Right. Right. It's a broader community. Friends of friends and 
people are very generous and I've seen it happen a number of times 
already. Somebody had a hip replacement or they had a this or that 
and organize through these websites and people just come out and 
help them out.  
Raiskin:  That's good.  
Long:  When you think back on your time as a lesbian in the Eugene 
community, what would you say was your greatest joy?  
Samuelson:  I'd just say there was a good spirit. There was a really good spirit of 
lesbians finding each other and becoming a visible community, 
which I had never seen anywhere else. And everything, like the car 
mechanics and the natural foods and the bookstore and the bars,  
dances, performances, the WOW Hall, White Bird. Oh, all kinds of 
things like that. It was good.  
Long:  Had you ever reflected on why there was a large lesbian 
community in Eugene?  
Samuelson:  I did wonder about that, but it seemed like it was almost like a 
word of mouth kind of thing. And then once the population started 
to grow, it just attracted more. And I knew that a lot of gay men 
were moving to San Francisco during those years and just seemed 
like the lesbians were all moving to Eugene. We just joined the 
crowd. It was the mass migration. It really was a big migration 
from all parts of the United States. This was the place.  
Raiskin:  You've lived through lots of different historical periods and, as you 
say, feminism didn't come about until you were somewhat older.  
Samuelson:  Right.  
Raiskin:  Things are really different now. Is there anything that you would 
tell young people specifically having lived your life? Any advice 
you'd give for young people?  
Samuelson:  I'd say that your potential, your relationships with other females as 
a female is the way to go. Women loving women. It's possible and 
it's good. It's the best.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.   
Samuelson:  You're welcome.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  