 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Ellie Fletcher on August 31, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media in Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Library's Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's Gender 
and Sexuality Studies.  
 Ellie, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the University to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Fletcher:  Absolutely.   
Long:  Thank you very much. Why don't we just begin with a very basic 
question. Can you tell us when and where you were born and 
something about your early years?  
Fletcher:  I was born in Hillsboro, Oregon, outside of Portland, Oregon, and 
lived there until I think I was three maybe. Then we moved to 
Eugene. I spent my young years in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. What years were those. What year were you 
born?  
Fletcher:  I was born in 1954. We came into Eugene in 1957. Had to look all 
this up. We're there until 1967 when we moved to San Jose. I went 
to Edison Elementary. We lived in the South Hills, went to Edison 
Elementary, Roosevelt Junior High and then we moved.  
 What was interesting for me about it  is that we had a token African 
American. We had a token person with a disability. We had a token 
Asian, but it was predominantly white, and it was predominantly 
professors' kids. I didn't have a lot of experience of life outside of 
myself, what was normal. That was something I really paid 
attention to later. Because when we moved to San Jose when I 
was— I spent kindergarten through sixth at Edison and then 
seventh grade at Roosevelt Junior High and then eighth grade at an 
elementary school in California. Then went to a four-year high 
school at Campbell High School in California. Then we moved back 
to Eugene, and I graduated from the three-year high school. My 
education was really kind of in and out.   
Raiskin:  What brought your family to Eugene in the first place and then 
back again?  
Fletcher:  Work. My dad's work. My mom was a stay-at-home mom. I have 
two brothers. I have an older brother and a younger brother. We 
were a normal family and we were poor, interestingly. I didn't 
know that until about two years ago that— 
Raiskin:  What did your dad do for work?  
Fletcher:  My dad fixed machines, office machines. Then as computers came 
into being, he started fixing— He was a service man for machinery 
in offices all over the state of Oregon. He traveled extensively and 
did trainings often outside of Oregon.  
Long:  Can you tell us something about your memories of Eugene from 
that period? What was the city like, for example?  
Fletcher:  It was interesting because I was born allergic and was really grass 
and flower, trees and weed-allergic. For me, my life revolved 
around what was going  on in the environment. Eugene was this 
beautiful treed small community. I think there were 25,000 people 
in it when I was a kid. We took the bus. My mom didn't drive for a 
long time, so we took the bus all around, and that was really a treat.  
Long:  Do you remember downtown?  
Fletcher:  Yes, very much.  
Long:  Can you describe downtown?   
Fletcher:  Downtown.  I love seeing pictures of it because JCPenney and 
Woolworth’s and Newberry’s and two movie houses, the 
McDonald's and then the Heilig Theater were downtown.  
Willamette Street was the main thoroughfare that everybody 
congregated to. Skinners Butte did not have a lot of tall trees on it, 
so when we went to the top of Skinners Butte you could see the 
entire area. Valley River didn't exist. Interstate 5 didn't exist. 
Beltline did not exist.  
 I watched them build Interstate 5. Thirtieth  Avenue stopped at 
University Street, and my dad and my brothers and I would go— 
My dad would shoot blanks, I'm hoping but— shoot into the wall 
that where they stopped Thirtieth Avenue right at University. We 
used to sled down Twentieth-eighth  Street from Emerald, Onyx 
and Emerald, down. We'd go almost all the way down to Alder, 
sledding and, yeah. Pretty fun. It was a nice city to grow up in, and 
very white. That was— 
Raiskin:  What was your temperament as a child?  
Fletcher:  My mom told me my entire life that I was a very happy kid.  
Raiskin:  So, socially, you felt in sync?  
Fletcher:  You know? There's a couple of things. One is— it really showed up 
in San Jose— that I didn't, apparently, I don't know if I didn't feel 
safe or what. But I didn't join any one group. I joined them all. I 
would rotate from group to group depending upon who I wanted 
to please that day. That followed me through high school and also  
through college and even in  my business. I tend not to be an actual 
joiner. I tend to flit in and out. I'm an Aquarian, kind of flit in and 
out.  
 I'm also, it took me years to find out that I was also gifted, and so 
I'm multi-talented. I would be bored. Math club, I got bored. In the 
art club, I got bored. I had a lot of friends in the neighborhood. In 
parallel to this I also have an extensive abuse history, sexual abuse 
history, that started at the age of four and ended it when I was 
eighteen  That was paralleling my life at that point. 
Long:  When you were growing up, did you have a sense of your own 
sexuality?  
Fletcher:  I liked being a girl. I wore skirts. I used to play with— we’d  go out 
and play cars, my brother, my older brother and I particularly. I 
would gather all the dirt in my skirt and carry it around. I used to 
make mud pies. I like to cook. I love to bake. My mom was pretty 
happy with having a girl, and she liked that. She and I were very 
close, so it was kind of the girls against the boys in our family.  
 I do remember times of meeting people that felt off to me, and I 
didn't know what it was and nobody talked about it. The two 
categories, one was people with disabilities either mental or 
emotional, like people with Down Syndrome or whatever. Then 
particularly gay men. There was something I could feel that was 
different.   
Long:  Can you describe those circumstances when you were around those 
people?  
Fletcher:  I was very aware and intuitive and energetically— I'm what they 
call a receiving empath. What happens is, is I pick up everybody's 
emotion. I could walk into a party, and I would have fifteen  
different emotions hit me if that was how many people were in the 
room. What I would feel is the uncomfortableness of the people 
around me. Not from the person who was making everybody 
uncomfortable or who it perceived that. It was that the other adults 
felt uncomfortable.  
Raiskin:  Oh, I see. Interesting.  
Fletcher:  I had a very misogynist abuser dad who was very masculine and 
very much the lord of the manor. For me, gay men were safe. Even 
as a kid, they were safe. Yet, I could feel the atmosphere of the 
uncomfortableness by the adults.  
Raiskin:  That's interesting.  
Fletcher:  Yeah.  
Long:  When would you have been around gay men?  
Fletcher:  I'm thinking that they weren't out, I don't think. It was more the 
mannerisms or the energy that I could feel.  
Long:  But were they maybe teachers? 
Fletcher:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Long:  Okay.  
Fletcher:  I know. Yes. Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I had a French teacher, a very 
gay man, who lived in high anxiety. That all of us kids felt really 
sorry for him because he lived in such high anxiety of being caught 
or of being ridiculed. Not by the kids.  
Raiskin:  What year was that?  
Fletcher:  That was when I was— it was in California. I was a sophomore and 
junior. It was two years of French.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. So, the '60s?  
Fletcher:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Yeah?  
Fletcher:  Yeah. Yeah, I graduated in '72, so it would have been early '70, '71.  
Raiskin: Oh, right.  
Fletcher:  Yeah. Then there was, I think, a very much a gay teacher in Edison 
in my elementary school. I got along well with people pretty much 
because I was a pleaser.  
Raiskin:  Were you aware growing up of any lesbians or the idea of 
lesbianism?  
Fletcher:  No clue. No clue, which although, although, I had a great-aunt, 
Aunt Agnes, who in fact never got married, hated kids, dressed like 
a dyke, and nobody talked about it.   
Raiskin:  Did she ever bring a friend to family events?  
Fletcher:  Nope. No. I don't know that she was ever in a relationship that the 
family knew about. My grandmother was very Christian, so I think 
she hid. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  You came back to Eugene for, again, for your father's work?  
Fletcher:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  And finished high school here?  
Fletcher:  Correct.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Fletcher:  If people were gay or lesbian or trans or bi, it was never divulged in 
school. I tended to hang out with a theater group besides choir 
because they would accept me. Because I went and did my senior 
year in a different school. The theater group was the only group 
that really accepted me. Interesting, I was in two drum and bell 
corps down in California, and one of them had probably a  hundred 
corp members. Even in that there was nothing about gay or lesbian 
at all, so I didn't know anything about it.  
Raiskin:  You knew there were a bunch of gay kids in that but, yeah.  
Fletcher:  Now, yeah, but not then.  
Raiskin:  You came back to do your senior year, and then what did you do 
when you graduated?   
Fletcher:  I started working as a baby photographer, and so I took pictures of 
children in JCPenney stores on the West Coast for a while. I got 
fired from my first job for political reasons because I  politically was 
not very savvy and got my boss fired, and yeah. From there my 
father got me a job at Lane County government. I worked in five 
different departments for Lane County, so I worked probably a 
total of twenty  years.  
Raiskin:  What did you do there? 
Fletcher:  Clerical, primarily, for the first part of it, and then accounting for 
the second part, receptionist. I worked for  district and circuit court 
and I was a floater clerk where I went and did docket, and I did 
arraignments. I mean, I actually am very good at doing multiple 
different things. That happened a lot at the county, as well. That 
was off and on from 1973 till about 1990,  I worked for the county.  
Raiskin:  Okay. What did you know about the lesbian community in Eugene 
and what was your connection with that?  
Fletcher:  Nothing. I knew nothing, which is partly why I'm here is because I 
wanted to let people know that there's a way by which you cannot  
know anything and still do okay, and there's a way by which that 
you can stay out of the lesbian community and still be lesbian. 
That's primarily why I came.  
 I consider myself a woman-preferred bisexual. Because how it 
happened for me is I became a Reiki Master in 1991. I audited 
classes and then backed them up, Reiki classes. I didn't know this at  
the time, but I was the cook for a lesbian class and didn't know 
that's what was going on. My Reiki Master after the class sat down 
with me, she and her partner, which I didn't know they were 
partners either, took me aside and said, "You know, you would be 
very, very good at being with women."  
 I remember going to the top of my old neighborhood at Twenty-
eighth  and Baker and sobbing because I knew that that was that I 
was putting my life at risk and that I was going to do that. I did 
personal growth trainings all during that time as well as Reiki 
trainings and met a lesbian who liked blond, blue-eyed girls and 
tended to take straight women and become partner, and so she 
partnered me. Incredibly wonderful woman.  
Long:  How did you meet her?  
Fletcher:  Through personal growth trainings. We were both together in it, 
and we were interns together. We did backup for trainings where 
there'd be between eighty  and 150 people in the room. Then we 
were dating and being in a relationship, a really committed, loving 
relationship. We decided to come out. It was interesting because 
even in, this was Coyne  and Associates was the name of the 
training company and it became Wings. This was during the time it 
was Wings.  
 They didn't address lesbian and gay at all. Luckily, I had this 
wonderful partner who had been a lesbian since she was little. We 
came out on a weekend, which was really terrifying. I came out in  
front of about 120 people, knees shaking. Thinking that they were 
going to hate me and make me leave, and they did not. They totally 
embraced it, so I had this wonderful experience with all these 
straight people.  
 It's interesting because until my partner and I came out, there were 
lesbians and gays that went through the Wings process and didn't 
share. I didn't share any of my abuse history, which was fairly 
significant during that time either. It was like there were some 
things that were taboo and this was taboo.  
Raiskin:  Can we back up just a little bit? When you said that first that you 
were with a group of lesbians and didn't recognize them as 
lesbians, didn't know about that. Then when you thought about 
yourself, when you realized when you were sobbing because you 
thought your life was at risk. I'm wondering where you got the 
negative information or ideas about being lesbian or gay that made 
you so fearful?  
Fletcher:  That's a great question. Because my family were who they are or 
were, I knew I  was going to fly in the face of their approval. I felt a 
lot at home with this group of women that I did this training with. 
Had no clue why. I just felt like they were wonderfully intelligent, 
powerful, gifted, talented, amazing women, and I like fit right in. 
That was not allowed in my family. It was not allowed to be gifted. 
I was not ever allowed to be more than my father. I knew that I was 
going to buck up against my upbringing in a big way. I didn't 
know anything about the community at all.   
Raiskin:  But you knew, perhaps, that there were some penalties, social 
penalties, for being gay or lesbian?  
Fletcher:  Yeah, because nobody talked about it. Nobody acknowledged it. It 
was like it didn't exist, and all of a sudden, now it exists. Now what 
do I do with it? I'm pretty clear I was pretty naive about all of it.  
Raiskin:  You felt the discomfort of your gay teachers previously so you 
would have— 
Fletcher:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. Yeah, and felt the discomfort of, excuse me, 
when I would see actions that I watch a lot of like gay men have 
and the uncomfortableness of the people around them. Yeah, I 
think that that played into it for sure. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  You introduced that you made lesbianism un-taboo in Wings, in 
coming out?  
Fletcher:  Yes. Yes. I think we did.  Then I went back later. I was an intern for 
a couple of years. After I was done with that and doing my own 
business, I went back in and did some training with the company 
staff in how to work with people who have been abused and then 
people who do alternate relationships. I'm an educator, and so I just 
tried to educate everybody.  
 What's really interesting about my situation because I didn't come 
out until I was thirty-three, I didn't— I forgot to vocally warmup, 
so here we are. I just made it okay like, "This is who I am," and so I 
was out to everybody. I know I lost business because of it. My  
current wife and I lived in Springfield. I know we lost business 
because we were in Springfield and I was out and open. Because I 
didn't have the stigma of the trauma of being a kid and being gay 
or lesbian or whatever, it just was normal for me.  
 Because I had already been married, had been married for six years 
by the time I came out and so, okay. It's just another relationship. 
For me, I freaked my wife out several times by, "This is normal. It's 
not weird. It's normal," and so I act as normal with it. She's like 
freaking out.  
Long:  Can we back up for a second?  
Fletcher:  Yeah.  
Long:  What year was it when you came out?  
Fletcher:  I came out, I was thirty-three, so '54— let me look. I think I wrote it 
down here somewhere. It would have been '86, so, yeah, about '87 
is when I came out, 1987 in Eugene.  
Raiskin: So you were out and you feel it's normal.  
Fletcher:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: Are you aware of everything, all the lesbian organizations and 
businesses and bookstores?  
Fletcher:  No.  
Raiskin: Okay. Now how?   
Fletcher:  I have to talk to you about that.  
Raiskin: Yes, please do.  
Fletcher:  Yeah, this is next story. Okay. I had an opportunity to help create 
and then facilitate support groups for people who were sexually 
abused and raped at an organization called the VOICES, Victims of 
Incest Can Emerge Survivors. It was created out of a couple of 
people who had done the Wings trainings. I was friends with them, 
and since I remembered some of my abuse history, I immediately 
joined up and became a facilitator.  
 My first partner and I wanted to do a group together. The current 
director of VOICES, as a straight woman, had no clue what was 
going on and asked us to come into an already established lesbian 
group to help them along in their process. We agreed because we 
thought that would be fun. We did the first night, and that was 
okay. The second night, my partner and I decided we would 
disclose that we were in partnership and that I was newly-out. This 
group of ten women or so when they found out I was new to the 
lesbian community attacked me and accused me of being a baby 
dyke and accused me of how dare me think I had the right to teach 
them anything. They got up and walked out.  
 I remember walking down the stairs from the group and saying to 
my partner, "If this is what it's like to be a lesbian, I'm not in. I'm 
not doing this." Because it was very, very painful. It was such the 
opposite of my coming out. I did a very foolish thing and I made a  
one-line statement, which I've done off and on all my life, that said, 
"Okay. I'm not going to participate," and I shut it out. I shut out the 
lesbian community. Although I was out, I shut out having any kind 
of relationship with lesbians for thirty-one years. Dumb. Because it 
really wounded my heart to have that situation happen.  
 It was a setup. It was a setup by the director who didn't know any 
better. It  was unfortunate for the women in the group because they 
didn't get to continue their process. Looking back on it now, I think 
that would have been a normal reaction given the separation of 
society around straight and lesbian or straight and gay.  
Long:  I'm actually not entirely clear on why the group of lesbians turned 
against you.  
Fletcher:  Well, you know, that's a really good question. I think the lesbians 
were insulted that a formerly straight woman would come in and 
try to facilitate the group.  
Long:  Oh, okay. Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Fletcher:  And think that I had anything to offer. Even though my partner 
had been lesbian since she was young. I think they were angry. I 
think they were angry in that they were struggling with an 
organization that was primarily straight. I think that was hard for 
them. That's all I can think of. I have not gone back and talked to 
my former partner about it for a long time, so I may do that.  
Raiskin:  They were dealing with their own traumas as well?   
Fletcher:  Yep. Yeah, and I think that I may have told them that I had been 
married to a man. I can't remember if I did or not. I think that that 
would have influenced them probably. Yeah, I'm not exactly sure.  
Raiskin:  What was your experience being lesbian and in partnership and 
being out in the straight world but not in the embrace of a 
community?  
Fletcher:  With the exception of a cruise, it was pretty easy for me. I really 
both emotionally and energetically, because it was so normal for 
me, I think people— it was okay. I didn't have a lot of fear. I wasn't 
expecting to get hurt or wounded or anything by it, so I think that 
that it just was, "Okay. That's what she is. Okay."  
Raiskin:  Did you read anything at the time? There was a lot of publications 
happening and books and novels.  
Fletcher:  No. 
Raiskin:  No? 
Fletcher:  No. I walked away from the lesbian community and that included 
anything. Here's the other piece is I tried being a lesbian for a 
couple of years. Then I was talking to somebody about how I didn't 
feel like a lesbian. She said to me, "Well, there's this great book out 
you might want to read called Bi Any Other Name. I went and got 
the book and I read it went, "Ah-ha! That's what's true for me is 
that I am bisexual." I absolutely love being with women. In fact, I 
think everybody should be with a woman, and I'm attracted to both  
sides. For me, it was I could really manage well in the straight 
world and I could be a bi.  
Raiskin:  It's really interesting what you're raising because it's sort of the 
definition of lesbian or bi as a sexual identity or as a cultural 
identity. You were identifying as a lesbian but not in community 
and not culturally. What did bisexual mean to you?  
Fletcher:  For me, it was the sexual attraction and the emotional energetic 
attraction.  
Raiskin:  To both  women and men?  
Fletcher:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. I'll go down the street and go, "Oh, that's a 
really cute guy." Joanne goes, "Okay." Then we'll go down, "Oh, 
that's a really cute girl." For me, there wasn't the division. My 
husband was very androgynous. He  had a lot of female in him, and 
I tend to be drawn to androgynous. Joanne has, my wife has, a lot 
of the female parts of her and she also has a lot of male parts, so at 
least the energy of it. That's what I prefer.  
 It also, I think being bi allowed me to  be able to stay true to myself 
without having to deal with the pain that I experienced from the 
initial lesbian contact. And I can say that all through our 
relationship I've had lesbian friends and we continue to have 
lesbian friends. I just didn't participate in the community at all, 
which to the detriment of my wife because she was very much in 
the community. She got her first Lavender Network  a couple of 
weeks ago after thirty-one years, and she was like happy camper.   
Raiskin:  What did she get?  
Fletcher: She got the Lavender Connection, the periodical.  
Raiskin:  The Lavender Network? 
Fletcher:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, yeah.  
Fletcher:  Yeah. There was another one she got, too, and I may have mixed 
them up. She sacrificed a lot of her world for me, and I didn't 
realize that for a very long time because I just am who I am and out 
doing my life.  
Raiskin:  Did she socially connect with other  people outside of your 
relationship?  
Fletcher:  Some. Some, but we did a dance class together. We ended up 
asking the teachers to change their pronouns from male to female 
to leader to follower so that we could take the class. We did a lot of 
integration of interfacing into a straight community as a couple. 
She got more used to that because that's just normal for me, so that 
was fun.  
 The only time we really struggled is we do a cruise to Alaska. It 
was very, very clear that it was not okay for us to be out  on the 
cruise. We actually were going to go dance because we had learned 
how to dance together, which was interesting because half the time 
I got to lead and half the time she got to lead. It wasn't like when I  
was married and John always got to lead, which I'm kind of a 
powerful leader. I wanted to lead and I'm left-handed and, yeah, 
like, "Let me lead some." We went to dance, and it was very, very 
clear when we walked in the room that that was not going to be 
allowed at all. We went out and played shuffleboard.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Fletcher:  It would have been '94. In 1994, we did a cruise to Alaska. No. Yes, 
somewhere in there.  
Raiskin:  You wouldn't have considered an Olivia Cruise or any kind of 
lesbian cruise?  
Fletcher:  We looked at Olivia Cruise,  and it was pretty much the expense. I 
think if I had been connected to the lesbian community, I probably 
would have considered it much more. But I felt safe in the straight 
community as a bisexual.  
Raiskin:  How did you feel during the anti-gay Measures 8 and 9 and 13? A 
lot of people felt very unsafe during that time in the straight 
community being lesbian?  
Fletcher:  I was pissed. Because in my world— and partly what's really 
important for people to get— is that loving and wanting to live my 
life with a partner is no different whether it's a man or a woman. 
For me, I never have been able to relate to making it wrong, just not 
in my bones to make it wrong. Joanne and I— I actually have 
pictures— participated in the political end of— we marched in the  
parade.  She had her costume was “No on 9.” On the back, she had 
all these questions that straight people could read. Then I had all 
the answers, so they had to see both of us in order to really figure it 
out. 
Raiskin: This is the Eugene's Celebration Parade?  
Fletcher:  Yeah, this is Eugene's Celebration Parade. Joanne and I marched a 
lot in the Celebration Parade for years and years. We would go 
from group to group. Sometimes it would be gay. One time we 
marched our dog and our dog had a sign about us wives. 
Sometimes we would march by ourselves. We pretty much just did 
what we wanted.  
Long:  What was the climate like during the No on 9. Or, Ballot Measure 
9? 
Fletcher:  It was tense. The OCA, it was really hard for us to know that there 
was an actual organization that had been created, the OCA, Oregon 
Citizens Alliance— 
Long:  Citizens Alliance.  
Fletcher:  —to make my life wrong. Because in my world it wasn't wrong. I 
want to backtrack a little bit. I told my brothers first. Both my 
brothers said to me, "Duh. You're with a woman? Duh." It was like, 
"Really? They knew and I didn't?" I finally, because I wanted to be 
truthful— I was into truth and honesty at that point— I wanted to 
make sure that my family accepted my partner, my first partner. I  
went and told my father first because I knew my mother was more 
prejudiced. He said, "I don't believe in it, but I'm not going to make 
you wrong. I'm not going to disown you around it."  
 That was very scary for me. Then I said, "Well, should I tell my 
mom?" He said, "No, don't tell her because she'll be upset about it." 
I couldn't help myself so I told her, and she didn't like it. Although 
she totally accepted— I mean, she would have been a good lesbian, 
too— the women I was with. When Joanne and I got together, she 
would call us  “the girls.” We could never talk about it with her, 
ever. If we brought up anything about our relationship, she would 
change the subject. She would walk out of the room. Mm-mm 
[negative]. Couldn't talk about it.  
 I heard from my younger brother one time that my younger brother 
and his wife were sitting on the coach, and my mother ran into the 
living and room and said to my little brother, "You're sister's a 
lesbian," and then ran back out of the room. My little brother's just 
cracking up because like, "Duh," he knew that. It really bothered 
her. She totally loved Joanne and, in fact, spent a lot of time with 
Joanne because she felt comfortable with her. Yet, we couldn't talk 
about it.  
Raiskin: Were you living in Springfield?  
Fletcher:  I did live in Springfield and I— 
Raiskin: I mean during this Measure 9?   
Fletcher:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?  
Fletcher:  We had some harassment in Eugene a little bit. Because Joanne and 
I are very demonstrative, and we're very demonstrative out in 
public. We hold hands. We hug each other. We kiss, which I did 
with my husband. When we were doing those things, people 
would yell at us or, yeah, you know?  
Long:  What kind of things would they yell at you?  
Fletcher:  You know, I don't even remember. I think I blocked it. I don't think 
they said “dykes.” I'm trying to remember. Because there was one 
time we were walking somewhere in Springfield. A Volkswagen 
van drove by and a young— she must have been in grade school— 
girl opened her window and yelled at us. What? It's so far out of 
my reality that I can't even track it. We purposefully moved out of 
Springfield because it was so tense. If I remember correctly, and 
maybe I shouldn't say this, I think Springfield was the first city to 
pass a law that made gay and lesbian— was it? 
Raiskin:  It was. It was when Measure 9 failed. Springfield  did a  city 
ordinance, and it passed.  
Fletcher:  Yeah. We purposefully moved out of Springfield so that I could run 
my business. Because I'm so out that my business really 
diminished. I'm pretty clear I lost business because I was out.  
Long:  What was your business?   
Fletcher:  I am a voice teacher. Let me read to you what I am because I do a 
lot of stuff. I've had five voice teachers in my life, and I wanted a 
teacher who could handle my emotional history and could handle 
all of the stuff I've gone through as a kiddo. I couldn't find anybody 
who was willing to work with me. My Reiki Master asked me if 
would teach her how to sing in, and I started doing that. I started 
working with people who were traumatized or couldn't carry a 
tune or were really frightened out of their wits about doing 
anything vocally.  
 Well, I'm so vocal that— I'm vocal to all of my students in terms of 
my very first lesson  with the exception of a couple of people. Very 
first lesson, they know I'm in a relationship with a woman, and 
they get to choose whether they stay with me or not.  
Raiskin: How do you tell them that?  
Fletcher:  There's a couple of ways. I will say, "My wife and I." And when we 
couldn't get married I'd say, "My partner, who's a woman, and I." I 
would come out that way. I have actually spent some time 
educating either teenagers or women in what it's like to be in a 
relationship with a woman. That's one of the  things I do on the 
side.  
 So, if I go through and tell you what I do currently. So, I interface. I 
went to massage school, got my massage license while I was 
working for the county and started moving into that. Then went 
from that to being a Reiki teacher, a voice teacher, a subtle energy  
healer. From there I became a shaman and a performer, a 
professional singer, performer, a presenter. I presented a lot of 
educational classes and workshops like at International Women's 
Day. It's interesting that I kind of was in and out of the community 
without being part of it. Yeah, it was interesting.  
 Oh, I also did a phase where I did organizing and went and trained 
myself and got training in how to organize people's houses and 
stuff. Although you couldn't tell by my  office that I'm good at that 
right now. That'll change. I've owned my own business since 1993 
and have made my living solely off of that, and wouldn't change it. 
I have a cream job. I get to work with incredibly wonderful, gifted, 
intelligent, both men and women. I actually, right now, I'm 
working with a transgender male to female and a transgender 
female to male. I've had to study voice for that because as they go 
through hormonal changes the voice changes and they have to re-
learn how to talk and sing.  
Raiskin:  Are you working with them about how to speak and talk as well as 
sing?  
Fletcher:  Some. Yeah. Both of them, now have become accomplished 
musicians, so I love that. I'm currently now really winding down 
my business. I'm sixty-four, so I'm hoping someday not to have to 
work although I love my job. I've become an artist, which I love. It 
doesn't make any money, but I love it, so I'm doing that.  
Raiskin:  Have you performed with others or been in any musical groups?   
Fletcher:  Yes. I joined Soromundi  for a term and got bored. I was in choirs 
clear through college. I joined the Peace Choir at one point. Got 
bored with that. Joined Sweet Adelines. Got bored with that.  
Raiskin:  What's the boredom?  
Fletcher:  That's a really good question. I think I'm coming  to you for 
counseling. I think I get done early with things I go after, and so I 
move on to the next thing I want to do. I think I've always done 
that. Probably the mainstay has been music and choir. Choir is all 
up from second grade through U of O and then being a performer.  
Raiskin:  I know these choirs, the Peace Choir and Soromundi have a certain 
amount of processing that happens and certain strong leaders. I 
was wondering how you interact with that in terms of these sort 
of— because  these are community-based choruses? 
Fletcher:  Right. Well, I love Lisa, who's the choir director at Soromundi. I 
love her. She's really good at what she does, and I respect and 
admire her tremendously. She was really easy to work with and 
Karm  was, too, for me. It was more I  wanted to do different music. 
Because in my duet, we did everything from— I was telling 
Lorraine earlier— we would do pop music, rock music as a duo. 
We would do pop music, rock music, jazz, gospel, classical, so we 
did all forms of music. That works for me to do that. The choirs 
were too limiting in that way.  
Raiskin:  What kind of art do you want to do once you retire?   
Fletcher:  I'm already doing it. I am doing three-dimensional— I make 
jewelry. I've been making jewelry for a long time. I started out 
making jewelry some for me, and then I would make these what I 
would call crystal strands. What they are is the big lead crystals on 
the bottom and then strands of beads. Partly why I did that is 
because I became allergic to chemicals. I got poisoned and I became 
allergic to chemicals, which means art projects are difficult if they 
are synthetic in any way like glues and paints and that kind of 
thing. I had to pick stuff where I could do nontoxic art. That 
became mosaic tile, three-dimensional mosaic tiling, which I have 
four on our property right now that I've done that are big.  
 Along with that, making jewelry because beads aren't toxic. Then I 
went to doing three-dimensional art using stuff and rhinestones. I 
really love anything glittery. My mother would tell you. Joanne 
would tell you. In fact, when I die, I'm going to have glittery in my 
ash, so that's how much I love it. Right now I'm working on a 
couple of pieces for— This year Joanne and I are planning our 
future. We reconnected with the lesbian community particularly 
down in Roseburg with the women's lands. We've spent just 
recently a weekend down on outside of Winston, between 
Roseburg and Winston, on women's land. I'll tell you— 
Long:  Which land was that?  
Fletcher:  That was Whispering Oaks at Liz's land. She's in Soromundi. I 
teach Soromundi singers. Throughout the years I've taught a lot of 
them. I've kind of got reconnected that way. It was the first time  
that I can remember in my entire life feeling safe. Being on that 
land overnight, we spent two nights, and I had never felt safe 
before. It was like, "Now, that's what I want." I just was down on 
another woman, two women that do Soromundi. They have this 
old, old house outside of Winston, and they have a tree house and a 
guest house and I got to go stay on the land there. Our goal, 
Joanne's and my goal, is we're going to go around to all of the 
women's land in Oregon and spend time.  
Raiskin:  It surprises me that you're attracted to the lesbian land in Oregon 
because of your not wanting to be part of the community up till 
now.  
Fletcher:  Everything shifted.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Fletcher:  Let me tell you about that.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Fletcher:  Okay. My birth name was Linda Leanne Gilbert. Leanne is my 
father's middle name and my mother's middle name put together 
and Gilbert was the patriarchal name. When I got married it 
changed to Linda Leanne Edmonds. Then when I got divorced it 
went back to Gilbert.  
 Then in 1999 my father, bless his heart, ordered the Gilbert crest 
from England. On the bottom of the crest it said, "We would rather 
die than change." I've been in counseling for years, and so I went,  
"Okay, I'm not going there with you anymore." I dropped the 
Gilbert. I played around with last names for about two years and 
couldn't find anything, so I dropped the Gilbert, so I became Linda 
Leanne for a long time. My business name was at that point Inner 
Rhythms, Joyful Voice! Or Linda Leanne doing business as Inner 
Rhythms, Joyful Voice!, which is my business name.  
 Then Joanne and I got married five years ago. Well, I should talk 
about my marriage piece because we've been married four times all 
together. The first time we decided to have a joining ceremony in 
1995. We went ahead and reserved the church. Then we went to see 
Johanna Mitchell who's this wonderful, amazing astrologer to get a 
reading together as a couple. She looked at our date of our 
wedding and she said, "That's the worst day of the year for you 
guys to married. Do not do that." Like, "Your wedding's going to 
dissolved or your life's going to dissolve together. Don't do that."  
 We went out into the woods up at Hendricks Park and did a 
private joining ceremony two weeks before. Then  we had a big 200-
person joining ceremony at the Fortieth  Street, Fortieth and Donald  
Street church, Unitarian Church, I think it was at the time. It's now, 
not a yoga— 
Raiskin:  A Buddhist school.  
Fletcher:  Buddhist. Yeah. That's been our favorite marriage in a way. Then 
we heard on the news at eleven o'clock the night before Multnomah 
County opened up for people to get married, so we spent part of  
the night trying to find outfits that we could wear to get married. 
We drove up to Portland and stood in line and got married at the 
courthouse steps legally.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?  
Fletcher:  It was fabulous because the actual courthouse was a big block. 
There was a line all the way around the block of lesbians and gays 
who were getting married, and so we had a blast. There was 
another couple that the Register-Guard  was going to interview, and 
somehow that didn't happen and so they picked us. They 
interviewed us. We're on the front page of the Register-Guard, 
pictures of us. Then we're— poor Joanne is really out. Fortunately, 
she had told the truth about why she was taking the day off from 
work because then we were in the paper the next day.  
 We got married and I don't even remember the name of the 
minister who  married us. Then we went around that entire block 
and got hugs and shook hands and yelled and screamed and had 
fun. We gave people our donuts and it was like this magical time. 
People were so happy. That was a great wedding for us. We were 
very happy campers.  
 Then I think it was two years and Joanne and I couldn't remember. 
They annulled our marriage. I'll tell you, that was one of the most 
painful things I've ever been through next to being divorced is 
because I like being married. I like being married to Joanne, and I 
was devastated that they sent back our money. They sent back our  
license. They sent back all of the paperwork we had filled out, and 
we were no longer legal. I grieved that really hard. People didn't 
understand how devastating that was for  me because I was happy 
being married when I was married to John, and I loved being 
married to Joanne.  
 We were actually up in Canada the day that Canada allowed 
marriages, and so we looked into that. There were all this logistical 
stuff we had to do, so we didn't get married in Canada, which I'm 
kind of glad for. Then we decided we'd get married in Vancouver, 
Washington. We went up to Vancouver and found a place, a park, 
to get married in. Our counselor, who's our couples counselor, did 
our wedding. All of  our closest friends were there. It was a very 
small wedding, and we got married legally up in Vancouver five 
years ago. We've been happily married ever since.  
 I love being married. There's something that deepens the 
relationship for me when it's acknowledged that I am not 
necessarily responsible  for the other person, but I'm the rock and 
she's the rock for me. I'm the rock for her. To be able to— when I 
was in the hospital, I had a hysterectomy. When I was in the 
hospital, we had to get special permission for Joanne to be with me. 
We had to get special permission for her to get any kind of medical 
information. They would give anything they wanted to my dad, 
but they wouldn't Joanne. I was highly insulted, and so for us to be 
married gives us some privilege that we couldn't otherwise have. It,  
really, it means that we have a future together and that we can be 
acknowledged as a couple.  
Raiskin:  It speaks to the piece of safety that you have referred to.  
Fletcher:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. It does.  
Raiskin:  About  how you felt on lesbian land and how you feel in marriage.  
Fletcher:  Yeah. Very much so, very much so. Thank you for saying that. I 
appreciate it.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about your interest in the land again?  
Fletcher:  We actually are looking to see if  we want to live on lesbian land or 
on women's land.  
Raiskin:  You were explaining how you had a big change in your life that has 
led to your interest in— 
Fletcher:  Oh, yeah. I forgot to tell you. Last September, Joanne and I, because 
we do really fun stuff— we follow paint lines by the way. Any 
paint lines in town, and we're on them. We make dates to go on 
paint lines, so we do stuff like that. One day we decided we weren't 
going to be ourselves. All day long we were a different character. 
At the end of the  day, I really liked who I had had created for that 
day. She wrote me a little letter saying, "Good bye, Linda, and 
hello, Ellie," and I just kept it.  
Raiskin:  How was Ellie different?   
Fletcher:  Ellie's very different. I think a lot of my history, my past  traumatic 
history, particularly about other parts of my history have dropped 
off. I don't feel like Linda even though some people call me Linda 
because they forget, which is okay. I don't relate to Linda at all. A 
great example of one of the personal changes: I used to take my 
showers in the morning and now I take them at night. I eat 
different food. What else? I listen to different music. My art's 
changing. So kind of quickly because I had a premonition that 
we're going to come up against some political stuff that they may 
annul our marriage again. That I wanted to have everything 
connected up as much as we could legally, and so I changed my 
name to Ellie Lin  Fletcher in December legally. Now we're the 
Fletchers.  
Long:  Was that Joanne's last name?  
Fletcher: Yes. Actually, a little quick interesting side is that when I met 
Joanne I had a car that I had named Fletcher and it actually had a 
calligraphy  Fletcher on the hood of the car. Because my favorite 
book is Jonathan Livingston Seagull  and the first student was Fletcher 
Gull. I loved that. Anyway, she was in the process of changing her 
last name over to Fletcher because her favorite book is Jonathan 
Livingston Seagull, and her favorite student is Fletcher Gull.  
 When she met me, she saw my car and that was  like, it. We're done. 
Fletcher has great meaning for me outside of our marriage, but it 
also means a lot to me in our marriage. I love being a Fletcher. It 
feels right.  I love being Ellie. I kept Lin  as a middle name because it  
made it easier for other people pretty much so they could call me 
Lin if they forget. I feel, I mean, like doing this today is really easy 
for me. It's not an issue. I feel softer. Ellie's a softer name. Linda 
became too harsh. No offense to you, Linda.  
Long:  No offense taken.  
Fletcher:  Thank you. I feel like I'm different, and I like who I am. For the first 
time in my life, I like myself, so I'm glad I changed my name.  
Raiskin:  How does that relate to finding lesbian land now?  
Fletcher:  I think part of that history dissolved when I became Ellie. I got 
interested as my singing students would say to me, "Oh, yeah. I'm 
going to go stay with dah, dah, dah," and say, "Who? And Where? 
And Where is it? And can I go?" Something really shifted big time 
for me. I wish it had shifted twenty years ago, but better late than 
never. It's much easier. Joanne's I think got mixed feelings if I can 
watch her face of she's really glad this is what we're doing, and 
there's a part of her that's really sad that she missed all that time 
with— Because she had quite a group of lesbian women around her 
when we got together and that dissolved out over time.  
Raiskin:  How are you finding the land and what does it feel like and look 
like?  
Fletcher:  I love it. I love it.  
Raiskin:  What's it like right now?   
Fletcher: What I'm not enjoying is when we lived in San Jose I had to come 
up to Oregon every summer as a teen because I couldn't stand 
being away from green. I grew up in the woods. I grew up in trees. 
I'm an ocean gal, and I love the moisture. The women's land tends 
to be between Roseburg and Medford or Ashland. It's like, "I don't 
know if I want to live in the dust." And, "I might live in the dust 
simply because I get to be on women's land." For me, it's magic.  
 I love powerful women. I love teaching powerful  women. I love 
women that are highly intelligent and multi-talented, self-
possessed, powerful women. I love helping straight women come 
into those attributes. I work with them a lot around the culture 
ceilings that women have about being less than or second class 
citizens.  
Raiskin:  Who are you meeting on the lesbian land right now?  
Fletcher:  Who am I meeting? The owners first. When we were there it was a 
weekend that they open up every year to Soromundi and other 
people who want to come onto the land. I got  to meet a whole 
bunch of about sixty  lesbians, and that was a blast. That was great 
fun. I didn't have any kind of visceral response either in terms of 
PTSD or past history. It just felt normal. My path is a little bit 
different than I think a lot of lesbians that I know, and I'm having 
fun. 
Raiskin:  Are you hoping to live down there then?   
Fletcher:  Kind of what we were talking about was seeing if we could get a 
little house, because we're downsizing. Our house right now is a 
tri-level and my office is one  whole level, and the house is just 
getting too big for us now. What we'd like is to— originally  we had 
talked about being on property next to women's land so that we 
could go over any time we wanted, which is really arrogant and 
entitled, but okay. Then it shifted over to, well, okay. Could we put 
a yurt on the land, and so we could live on the land? Because I am 
allergic to motor homes and travel trailers and that kind of stuff, so 
I can't do that. Or, could we find an old house to live in whatever?  
 Then  we've got some lesbian friends. Joanne's best friends are 
lesbians, and they live down on Long Beach. They're going to be 
moving up as they retire out. We thought, Well, maybe we could 
share land with them,  and enjoy the time with them. We're really 
heading in that direction fast, so we'll see.  
Raiskin:  Have you been down there in the winter?  
Fletcher:  No, and that's another piece is I'm not sure I want to live down 
there in the wintertime. We were also talking about going over to 
the coast. We're going to  check out the lesbian lands or women's 
land up in Washington also and see if that's a place that we would 
want to go to. Because we're really open. There's nothing holding 
us here.  
 I, personally having grown up in Eugene, and not enjoying being in 
Eugene anymore. The traffic is how I remember it in San Jose and  
San Francisco. I learned to drive in San Francisco. I'm not enjoying 
the pollution. I'm not enjoying that the trees are dying. It feels like 
it's too big, and it doesn't know how to grow itself so  that it's 
sustainable. I'm really into sustainability and recycling and taking 
care of the planet and that whole side of myself. As a shaman I can 
feel Mother Earth in a lot of pain. It's now invaded Eugene. Since 
we live up in the south hills, we're struggling with what's going on 
on Hilyard Street. It's a five-story building. It's being built behind 
Albertsons on Thiry-second and Hilyard.  
Raiskin:  It's too big for you?  
Fletcher:  Way too big. Yeah, it's in residential, so all of the houses now 
they're going to be looked down into windows from this big 
complex. The Hilyard Street is already over-congested, and they 
haven't done anything about how they're going to take care of the 
traffic. It's going to get very hard for us to get in and out of where 
we are. We're looking to get out of here. Yeah, which is sad because 
Eugene's always been home.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. We have been asking people how feel 
about or any thoughts they have about aging as lesbians.  
Fletcher:  Scary.  
Raiskin:  Yeah? Why is that. 
Fletcher:  Scary. Because Joanne and I don't have any heirs. We spent some 
time in our wills trying to decide, well, first of all, we figured out  
when my parents died we'd better have really substantial wills and 
be very succinct and legal in all of that even though we're married. 
We spent a long time trying to find an executor and who to give the 
house to. What we know now is we can give it to women. Hooray. 
We can donate it to a 501(3)(c) that's been created down in women's 
land down south. We didn't know that because I was so separated 
from it.  
Raiskin:  The house itself or the estate?  
Fletcher:  We could do the estate or the house, whatever we want to do with 
it. That's, we're redoing our wills and that will change some. Then, 
of course, if we move it'll change the wills again. But I think the 
main thing is is how to be able to care for each other because 
Joanne's six years younger than I am, six and a half years. Since we 
don't have any immediate younger family, we've got to figure  out, 
okay, where are we going to go if something happens to one of us? 
How are we going to take care of each other? Yeah, it's much 
scarier.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any trepidation about being in assisted living or other 
kinds of medical facility as a lesbian? I know you've spent most of 
your life in the straight world and have not had a problem. I'm 
wondering how you feel about that as an aging or a more 
vulnerable person?  
Fletcher:  I can manage pretty well in the straight world. My preference 
would be to be in a lesbian home or to— I'm happy if we decided to  
live on land where it was a condos or something where we're all 
living together. That's great for me. I do well with that. I think the 
hard piece actually for me is the chemical piece of being allergic to 
pharmaceuticals and being allergic to antibiotics, being allergic to 
stuff that they're going to give me if I'm not on top of it.  
 Daily, that's scary for me. I do everything I can to stay out of 
hospitals. I have a PCP for insurance purposes, but I don't do 
anything with medical profession that I can get out of. That's the 
scary part for me. I know that it's not going to be okay with me on 
any kind of level if they try to break us up. In fact, as of— we got 
married on the thirtieth  of September. As of the thirtieth  of this  
September, we're together twenty-nine  years. Those are fightin’ 
words.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. It's been an issue. AARP is dealing with 
that issue of couples who want to stay together.  
Fletcher:  Yeah. Thank goodness. I never paid attention really to how many 
lesbians there are in Eugene. There's a lot. I know. A whole new 
world to explore for me.  
Raiskin:  What does it look like to you at this point?  
Fletcher:  It's exciting. I'm looking at Lorraine purposefully because that's 
why she's here. It just  feels natural and real to me. Oh, I shouldn't 
say this. If I can convince all of my female students to be with 
women I would because it's a way fun time. It's like being with 
your best friend, so I love it.   
Raiskin:  Good.  
Fletcher:  Yeah, like who knew? I know. Coming from not knowing anything 
or having any awareness that there was this whole other side of life 
to now living in it is quite lovely.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. It makes your future very exciting?  
Fletcher:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yeah, and new things. New things to play 
around with. Interestingly enough, there are days that I'm an angry 
lesbian. There are days I'm an okay bi. I have not come up against 
the prejudice I came up with that first time ever since then.  
Raiskin:  Is there some other piece of your life we haven't touched on that 
you would like to talk about?  
Fletcher:  Let me look. You know? There's one piece that's— thank  you for 
asking that. What we didn't talk about is the stuff that I have done 
as a volunteer. I would like to talk about that a little bit, and then I 
have one last piece.  
 I volunteered at VOICES. I actually created the second level of the 
VOICES curriculum for assisting people and primarily women's. I 
did groups with both men and women, and then I did just women 
groups a lot and met  Joanne around that time. Then Joanne and I 
have been in the paper three times with our pictures. Yeah, we've 
been interviewed three times by the Register-Guard  around our 
relationship, so that's been quite fun.   
 I've done a lot of work— I haven't done it for a while because I got 
sick. About thirteen years ago I got really sick from being 
chemically poisoned. But I would do International Women's Day 
and help organize it and help be a presenter on International 
Women's Day. Then I got involved with an organization called 
Camp Avalon. Have you heard of it?  
Raiskin:  It sounds familiar.  
Fletcher:  Yeah. What it is, it's this wonderful women, Teressa O'Caer, who's 
a business women here in Eugene, decided to do a camp for girls, 
for a rite of passage camp. I got involved in that and helped create 
the curriculum. Then I was a presenter, and I did a lot of the music 
for them and then talked to the girls. I was in charge of the elders 
circle. I created an elders circle where elder women would come in  
and talk to the girls every year. Then they ended the camp right 
before I was eligible to be in the circle of elders. I did that for, I 
think, eight years.  
 Even though I didn't do a lot of political stuff, I still have involved 
myself a lot with women and working with girls and women. I 
teach voice to my favorite is working with women. I also have been 
a Reiki teacher. I've stopped that now. I don't teach classes anymore 
because they're too tiring for my body. But I would do weekend 
Reiki classes three days usually, a three-day class. A first degree, 
second degree, and I've initiated, I think, twelve  Reiki masters. I 
did that.   
 Then the other thing I wanted to just mention because I don't have 
a forum for it really is I'd have to look at the date. I didn't. I have 
the article. I was interviewed for the Register-Guard  back in 
probably '86 or '87, somewhere in there, with my picture on the 
front of the, whatever section it was, of my abuse history. I came 
out with my abuse history to all of Eugene including my family 
thirty  years ago before it ever became the #MeToo Movement or 
anything like that.  
 When the #MeToo Movement happened, I went, "Oh, okay. Duh. 
Did that." Yeah. I did have a job where I had a supervisor, a 
wonderful man supervisor, who said to me,  "I think you're a 
lesbian," he thought I was a lesbian, "because I just think you're 
mad at men." At the time I denied it. There is a component where I 
am so pissed at the male, at the patriarchy, and at the misogyny 
and at the second class citizenship that we create for women and 
children and animals and the planet, that it's a struggle. I try not to 
take it out on my males students.  
Raiskin:  We've also been asking people to think about this interview being 
watched by a younger person maybe now or maybe in the future. 
Given your history and your wisdom, what might you tell them?  
Fletcher:  I think one of the hardest things that we do as humans is be 
ourselves in the face of the world. I also think that being on this 
planet is about risk. What I would tell a  younger person is, "No 
matter what's going on outside of you, find yourself and find 
yourself from the inside out. Then go do counseling." I believe that  
every single human being should have a counselor including every 
counselor because it's mental floss.  Like we have a dentist and I 
have an attorney. I have a business attorney and I have a tax 
consultant and I have my dentist and I have a counselor. That's, I 
think, what has kept me okay all these years. Get yourself a 
counselor as soon as possible. Then do the work of becoming 
yourself from the inside out. Yes.  
Raiskin:  Thank you very much.  
Long:  Thank you.  
Fletcher:  You're welcome. It was my pleasure.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  