Long:  Okay. This interview is part of the  Eugene Lesbian Oral History 
Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon’s Special Collections and University 
Archives. This is an oral history interview with Lynn Pinckney on 
July 11, 2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Library Special Collections and University 
Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the University of Oregon 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Lynn, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project, and that you give your permission for the University to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Pinckney:  Yes, I do.  
Long:  Thank you. Great. So, now we'll launch into some questions. First 
up is please tell us where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background.  
Pinckney:  I was born here in Eugene. I know, pretty unusual. But, we moved 
away when I was four months old. My father was teaching at the 
University of Oregon briefly when I was born. He took a job at 
Central Oregon Community College in Bend, which is where we 
went and where I grew up. I lived there until  I was nineteen  years 
old. 
Long:  Okay. Anything else about your family, siblings?  
Pinckney:  I lived with my dad, and my mom, and my older brother, and my 
older sister. Grew up in Bend. My dad was a professor at the 
community college there and quite the man  about town. So, I grew 
up with this really well-known, widely respected dad. I knew that I 
was a lesbian from as far back almost as I can remember, and 
always was that square peg in the round hole growing up. I came 
to Eugene for college.  
Long:  Okay.  
Raiskin: What was the environment in Bend, when you were growing up, if 
you were gay?  
Pinckney:  Well, there wasn't one, really. I, somehow, in retrospect, managed 
to find all the other gay kids in high school, but we never  
acknowledged it or knew about it. Well, rarely. I did kiss a girl in 
high school, and also had a very, very brief relationship with 
someone who was older, who thought I was older. But, anyway, 
there was no atmosphere. There was no environment for gay 
people. You were always wrong.  
Raiskin:  So, there was a palpable homophobia, would you say, or— 
Pinckney:  We just didn't exist. We just didn't exist. So, yeah, it was palpable. 
People spoke very rudely about gay people, when they spoke at all. 
In 1962— back up. Sixty-one, I think, when I was six years old, 
there were two lesbians who threw their children into the Crooked 
River Gorge and killed them. This was big news in Oregon.  For a 
long time, that was the only thing I knew about lesbians, was that 
they had murdered their children.  
Long:  Was there any follow-up story about this, why they might have 
done that? What was the news coverage like?  
Pinckney:  Oh, well, I was a really small child at that time, so I was only six 
when this happened. Actually, I think we were living briefly in 
Washington,  D.C. at the time, and found out about it when we got 
back. I can remember my parents having a hushed discussion. I can 
remember my mom saying that she'd heard that they had a stable 
of women. You know, all this stuff, and that it wasn't right. These 
were just two intellectually challenged women living out in the 
desert and they— I think one of them, the actual mother, the 
biological mother of the children, may have gotten off because I  
think it was her girlfriend that actually took a hammer to the 
children  before they threw them, especially the boy. Anyway, these 
were small kids and they died. There were whispers, but later, the 
woman who had spent many years in prison, said she was sorry for 
what she had done. She and her family always denied access to— 
Ann Rule, who writes all the true crime stuff, she wanted to do 
their story, and nobody ever would let her do that.  
Long:  Okay. Do you care to talk about why you were in Washington, 
D.C.?  
Pinckney:  Oh, sure. My dad was a very political person. He was a man of the 
'50s and very liberal. He worked for Senator Wayne Morse here in 
Oregon and was a really big supporter of him, and even ran his 
state-wide campaign for president in 1960. Of course, Morse didn't 
get anywhere because it was Jack Kennedy's time. But, Dad— one 
of his rewards was then to go back and work with Morse for a year 
in the Senate, which just really enhanced his credibility as a 
professor of American History and Political Science.  
Long:  Okay, thank you. You said you came to Eugene to go to the 
University of Oregon?  
Pinckney:  That's when I moved here, yes. I was aware of Eugene before that, 
but I went to COCC for a year, year and a half because I had 
dropped out of high school. Then, I continued at the University of 
Oregon.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Pinckney:  I first came here in the fall of 1974.  
Raiskin:  Okay. When you came, were you aware of a lesbian community, or 
were you hoping to find something here?  
Pinckney:  Yes. Very much so. I really wanted to get out of Bend. Not that I 
didn't know gay  people by then in Bend, because I did, but few and 
far between. I knew there was a lesbian community in Eugene, and 
don't ask me how I knew that. I just knew. I don't know how to 
explain it. But, I knew that anything bigger was going to have more 
gay people. And you couldn't get a four year degree in Bend, so I 
had to come. I had done what I could at COCC, both finished high 
school and gotten in a couple of years college there.  
Raiskin:  When you came here, what was your living situation and what was 
the community that you had found?  
Pinckney:  I moved in with a good friend of mine from Bend, who I had 
known since we were thirteen  in high school, where we had met 
while attending the Mormon Church. We were both Mormons, or 
had that in our history, and were  very much feminists and also 
interested in studying sociology. We moved in together. By 
January, we had become lovers.  
Raiskin:  Did you socialize with other lesbian students on campus?  
Pinckney:  A few. Now, at the time, the University had the Gay People's 
Alliance, but it was almost all men. We were not old enough to go 
to the bars. So, we mainly connected with other feminists, where  
we immediately, of course, ran into lesbians. But I don't think we 
were really that close to— I don't remember a group of lesbian 
friends at that time.  
Raiskin:  Was there a feminist group on campus?  
Pinckney:  There was, but I never had anything to do with it. I studied 
sociology. And drank a fair amount of beer. We had friends. The 
political stuff we did then was— there  was this organization called 
the Women's Union, and we would basically meet and plan the 
revolution in, you know, people's attic bedrooms. We never got 
around to doing anything, but we talked a lot.  
Long:  I know that there— On campus in 1975, the Gay People's Alliance, 
the GPA, had sponsored the first gay pride week on campus. Do 
you have memories of that?  
Pinckney:  I remember attending that.  
Long:  What was it like? What was the atmosphere?  
Pinckney:  Just joyful, but scary also. I mean, it was in the spring, and it was 
right when I was about ready to drop out again. Seemed to be what 
I was into doing in those days. We went to hear a couple of 
speakers, I think. I actually don't remember tons about that. I later 
put on pride weeks, but at that time, I didn't.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think you were dropping out?   
Pinckney:  I was a radical, okay. I would spend time doing things like passing 
out the Daily Worker  on street corners. I was unsure about getting a 
college degree, or having any kind of a life in academia. I wanted to 
change the world right now. So, we did things like pass out the 
Daily Worker  outside of workplaces, which was actually not your 
typical student activity at the time. We were communists. 
Absolutely.  
Long:  Were you card-carrying com— 
Pinckney:  We were Marxist-feminists.  
Long:  —Okay.  
Pinckney:  It was very important in those days, especially as a lesbian or a 
feminist, to define what kind you were. So, we were Marxist-
lesbian-feminists. The titles for what you were had at least three. 
You couldn't have less than three.  
Long:  Were you aware of Randy Shilts, who was a student here at that 
time?  
Pinckney:  I was not. I mean, in retrospect, I went back and read some articles 
of his in the— 
Long:  San Francisco— 
Pinckney:  Emerald. 
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Pinckney:  But I was not aware of him.  
Long:  What about Harriet Merrick? She was involved with the Gay— the 
GPA.  
Pinckney:  Harriet worked in the administration building, although she was 
maybe a student at that time.  
Long:  She graduated in 1975 from UO.  
Pinckney:  I didn't know her as a student.  
Long:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  How did you decide to go into law?  
Pinckney:  I was— Well, I got my bachelor's degree on the ten-year-plan, 
which involved dropping out and working in a nursing home for 
about five years. I returned to college. I was in Eugene in '75 to '80 
as a non-student.  
Raiskin:  Before we go on to your being a student then, just to think about 
those years, can you describe what the lesbian scene was like in 
Eugene at that time?  
Pinckney:  Yeah. It was fabulous. There were lots of lesbians. There were lots 
of people who were out, or semi-out. There were bars. There were, 
at one point, three gay bars. And one of them, the Riviera Room 
downtown, had a women's night on Thursday night. Which, for a 
town the size of  Eugene, that was good. We all went to the bars, 
and we all went to the Riviera Room on Thursday night.  Many of  
us knew each other. I was working as a nurse's aide. I had taken a 
class through the State Board of Nursing and became what was 
called a medication aide. So, I walked around and passed out 
medications in a psychiatric nursing home.  
Long:  Where was that?  
Pinckney:  It was on Twenty-Ninth  Street. It was called Pleasant Valley 
Nursing Home. It's now something memory care facility. It's been 
in the news lately. Anyway, we decided that we were going to be— 
I was still with my partner, Deb, who I had moved in with in '74. 
We had returned to Bend for a year, came back, went to work in 
nursing homes. We were trying to organize the nurse's aides at that 
time. That was successful in Salem. We never managed it in 
Eugene. We wanted to see the nurse's aides unionized. We worked, 
and it was a women-dominated field. They head honchos were 
nurses, who were mostly women at that time. And the aides were 
mostly women. So, we felt very comfortable there. And there were 
a lot of lesbians. The place where we worked, we met people I still 
know today, like Mary Hotchkiss, and Debby Martin, who's in 
WYMPROV!  We all worked together in this nursing home, and 
went to the nude beaches in the summer, and went up to the hot 
springs in the winter, and went to the bars on Thursday night. It 
was just a blast.  
Long:  During those years, were you out to your parents and your 
siblings?   
Pinckney:  Yes. 
Long:  Can you tell us about that?  
Pinckney:  Sure. Mom and Dad  never really cut off any contact, but they were 
not happy.  
Raiskin: Were they Mormon?  
Pinckney:  They had been Mormon, yes. They were not devout. They were 
kind of Jack Mormons, although they still tithed, and they still let 
the home teachers in once a month for a discussion. But they didn't 
actually attend church. My dad was known as a freethinker in the 
church, which was pretty bad, but not as bad as an apostate. Where 
were we?  
Long:  Oh, coming out to your family.  
Pinckney:  Right. I came out to my parents by writing them a letter. They 
responded by bringing me their typical gifts that they had given to 
my brother and sister when they got married, which was a black 
and white portable TV and a sewing machine. They brought those  
to us. But they were not happy. They could barely stand to speak to 
us. My sister also did not cut me off, but the contact was very, very 
limited. My brother stopped speaking to me, and we did not speak 
for almost twenty  years. He said to my parents that as far he was 
concerned, I was dead. He pretended to his children that I didn't 
exist. They were older children, or young teenagers, when they 
found out that I even existed.   
Raiskin:  Were you able to grieve that at that time?  
Pinckney:  You know, I cried about it a little bit. But I thought, you know 
what, why would I spend time with someone whose reaction is so 
extreme, that they would rather I be dead than be who I am. It was 
heartbreaking. My brother and I were close, very close growing up. 
He was a wonderful brother. It was very sad, but you just go on. I 
kind of lost my family for a long time.  
Long: Was he religious?  
Pinckney:  No. 
Long: Why do you think he had that reaction and the others were a little 
different?  
Pinckney:  Primarily, the woman he married was quite extreme in her views. I 
think she just put her foot down. She couldn't tolerate being in my 
presence, I think. It was beyond what she could do. And they had 
children by then.  
Long:  If we could just fast forward in time then, twenty  years later, was 
there a reconciliation?  
Pinckney:  Yes. We all came together to care for my parents in their final years, 
and we worked very well together. Oddly enough, as soon as I saw 
my brother, we fell right back into the same childhood dynamic, 
where it's he  and I against my sister. So, yeah, we worked together. 
But the story gets more complicated. One day I was at work, and a 
little voice calls me on the phone and asks a work-related question.  
I thought, "Who the heck was that?" Kid calls back a couple weeks  
later. Turns out it's my niece, his oldest daughter, who is a lesbian 
and wants to come see me. He cut her off. He called everyone she 
knew and told them not to speak to her. She had to drop out of 
college. It was horrible, horrible for her. The viciousness was just— 
I'm not going to go there. He did not only horrible things to me, not 
only destroyed our family, he then proceeded to destroy his own. 
After my parents' death, our contact has been pretty limited. I 
mean, they talk about turning the other cheek, and you do, but it's 
limited.  
Raiskin:  Have you had a growing relationship with your niece? Did she 
come to you for support?  
Pinckney:  Yeah, yeah, definitely. We're good friends now. She and her partner 
have been together all these years, and they actually have four 
children. They live in Seattle.  
Raiskin:  Going back to 1975 to 1980— those dates.  
Pinckney:  Right.  
Raiskin:  Think about how much fun everybody was having in the bars. 
What were the attitudes around sexuality in the community that 
you were in?  
Pinckney:  We listened to Holly Near and Golden Thread, so there was a lot of 
just very, very positive feeling about being gay. That we were 
going to make progress. That, as the women's movement achieved  
things, it was clear that things were changing for us. For example, 
women were allowed to have credit cards, and purchase real 
property without a male. I remember knowing three lesbians, who 
were just a few years older than us, who got together and bought a 
house. I can remember it just blowing my mind, and my partner 
and I sitting and talking and thinking, "You know, maybe someday 
we could do that. Maybe we could buy a house."  
 One of the reasons I had dropped out of college is because, at that 
time, you couldn't pass the moral turpitude test to be  a teacher, or a 
physician, or a lawyer, or a nurse, and be out of the closet. You had 
to get the okay from this organization. People did it all the time, but 
they lied. We had decided we weren't going to lie. So, we accepted 
the idea that our lives were going to be on the edge. That our life 
was going to be lived at that lower arc. And that we were going to 
accept that in order to be honest, and perhaps achieve social 
change.  
 I had wanted to be a lawyer when I was back in high school, but I 
gave up on that idea. I decided not to do that because I wasn't 
going to lie about who I was. We worked in nursing homes. We 
thought about going on as nurses. It's like, "Well..." The State Board 
of Nursing looks at you, and they look at your credit rating, and 
they look at what kind of person you are. People just didn't say, 
"Oh yeah, I'm in an open lesbian relationship," and write that 
down. You just didn't, because you weren't going to get the okay. 
Or you might, but you were taking a risk that you had put all this  
time and money into an education that you then couldn't use. You 
couldn't be an open lesbian and pass the moral turpitude section of 
the Bar. You couldn't do it. So, we decided, because we were 
radicals, that we were not going to lie. That meant we were going 
to work in hotels, restaurants, and nursing homes. And that was 
how we were going to live.  
Long:  I did want to ask a question about LGBT rights in Eugene around 
that time, in the mid to late '70s. In June of 1976, there was a lot of 
anti-gay activity happening around Eugene. For example, paint 
was spattered on the walls of the Riviera Room, eggs were thrown 
at people leaving the bar. Can you tell us— Give us more detail 
about what that was like.  
Pinckney:  Yeah. So, at that time, 1976, I was actually living in Bend. I had 
returned to Bend for a year just as part of my dropping out thing. 
But, we knew about that. We had friends who were here and we 
came back that summer. People talked about it. We talked about 
that you needed to be more careful. People said, "Oh, leave the bar 
in groups." I think people were a little more careful, but you have 
to understand that, in context, that didn't seem like very bad 
because the police would raid the Riviera Room, okay. There was a 
back door in that bar for a reason. Nobody really cared about the 
lesbians. But there were gay men, who were in the closet, who— 
being  gay wasn't illegal formally, but acting on it was, and certainly 
acting on it in public was. And things happened in bars, as they 
always have and always will. So, there were gay men who were, in  
particular, were really concerned. But the concern was less about 
somebody spray painting something on the outside. It was about 
the police. Or that was just as important.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember any physical assaults on gay men or lesbians?  
Pinckney:  I remember hearing about them. I don't remember knowing anyone 
that that happened to. It never happened to me. Although once, 
years later, I had to run up that alley by the Riv Room because I left 
the bar by myself. But  that was actually years later.  
 At that time, there were a group of gay men who were very 
concerned about their status in the community, and they wanted 
legal protections for gay people. There were a few other places 
where this was being raised around the  country. They went to the 
City Council, and in 1977, after much work by a group of gay men, 
the City Council passed a civil rights ordinance for gay people. It 
was protection for housing and employment. I don't think it was 
public accommodation, but don't  quote me on that. But I know 
there was employment discrimination and housing discrimination 
were included, and it prohibited it.  
Long:  Yeah. And, as I recall, UO law professor, Dom Vetri wrote the 
ordinance.  
Pinckney:  Dom Vetri. Yes. Yes. So, here we are  in like the fall of '77, and the 
City Council passes this. This actually came as a surprise, certainly 
to much of the lesbian community, but for a lot of the community 
as a whole. We were like, "Wow, should we be doing this now? Are  
we ready for this?" But it didn't matter. The City Council went for 
it. Kudos to them. Of course, there was a group organized 
immediately. I'm not going to be able to say the name of it. Citizens 
for something, I don't know. Anyway, they conducted a 
referendum and it was placed  on the ballot that spring.  
Long:  Referendum 51? 
Pinckney:  Fifty-one. This was one of the first gay rights buttons that I ever 
wore in my life. I was not part of the leadership. I was a nurse's 
aide. But I showed up for stuff. I showed up, and I can remember 
being part of a big march of almost a hundred people, marching 
through downtown Eugene. Let me tell you, if you ever wanted to 
feel alone, just get with a hundred and walk through downtown. 
There weren't very many of us. People got yelled at. It was  kind of 
horrible. There was a march where there was an incident, where 
there was some hitting, but I wasn't part of that one.  
 What I did was I tabled at one of the very first Saturday Markets 
out there on the Butterfly Lot. The big campaign thing was, "No on 
51," and this button, "Here to stay." It has the Lambda in it. You 
notice neither one of these buttons uses the word “gay,” or 
“lesbian.” Because we were still— most of us were still in the closet, 
you know. It was a big thing to get out in public and oppose this 
measure. Of course, we lost. The good citizens of Eugene voted 2-1 
against us, I believe.  
Raiskin:  What was the reaction of the community to that?   
Pinckney: It was sorrow. We actually thought we could win for a little while. 
There's a really interesting book called It Could Happen to You, 
written by the No on 51 writers group, or the gay and lesbian 
writers group, I'm not sure. It uses no names. But it was written by 
a group of radicals, who were in the campaign. They describe, in 
detail, what the decision-making was like. That really should be 
part of the collection. I have a copy, but it's around. You can get it 
on AbeBooks, or whatever. Anyway, very interesting book. But I 
wasn't part of the leadership. A woman who was very active in 
Eugene for a long time, Carol Queen, was part of that group. She's 
definitely a person to be contacted.  
Long:  Okay. So, now we're towards the late '70s. Are you still an 
undergraduate at UO?  
Pinckney:  No. I didn't go back to school until 1980.  
Long:  Okay.  
Pinckney:  So, I'm still working as a nurse's aide. We just worked on our 
culture. What we did was, in spite of this really horrible loss, that 
was really disheartening because we did really think we could win 
there for a little while, we focused on making a home for ourselves. 
That's what we did. We made a home in Eugene for gay people. 
Very successfully, I think.  
Raiskin:  How did you do that? What did that look like?   
Pinckney: Again, it was knowing each other. Being out to each other. Going to 
the bars because that was where you could meet. People dressed in 
code. The guys had their little bandana things. But the women, we 
wore flannel shirts and we drank tea. And we went to  places like 
Mama's Home  Fried Truck  Stop, which was a collective coffee 
house near the University.  
Long:  Where was it?  
Pinckney:  It was later— Pegasus Pizza was in there for years. It was like just a 
block from here. It was on Fourteenth. Between Kincaid and Alder. 
You could go in there and be sure to find lesbians, and there might 
be some lesbian music playing in the background. You went up 
and poured your coffee. There was only honey to sweeten it. There 
was lots of hugging right there around where the coffee was 
poured. Lots of hugs. There were always people to hug. Then you 
would go off to your table.  
 Then, on Thursday night, women's night, we would go— and, of 
course, disco was starting then. We went and we listened to Fame 
and American Girl and danced our hearts out on the dance floor at 
the Riviera Room. On Thursday nights, it was more women than 
men on the dance floor.  
Long:  When did you go back to school?  
Pinckney:  I went back in 1980. We sold our 1968 Volvo SS with a not working 
alternator, or  electrical system. We had to get a jump wherever we 
went, basically. We sold that for the tuition because they said I  
made too much money as a nurse's aide to qualify for any financial 
aid. So, I sold my car, went back to school, and finished a degree in 
sociology.  
Long:  What year did you graduate?  
Pinckney:  Eighty-two. And I will tell you that in 1982, there was a really bad 
recession. You could stand in a line of fifty people for a 
dishwasher's job. You could sit down at Fifth Street Market and 
look out  the window and watch people riding the rails. I thought 
about going on in graduate school in sociology. At that time, LA 
Law was on TV. There was a really bad recession, and I thought, 
"People are doing this. They're not lying, or they're lying just a little 
bit. So, I'm going to go for it." I decided to go to law school because 
I thought maybe I could do some good with that degree, even if I 
had to compromise my principles a little bit. My girlfriend said I'd 
sold out to the man, and we broke up.  
Raiskin: How was law school for you? What was that experience like?  
Pinckney:  It was the oddest thing. I all of a sudden became a person to my 
family again because I was doing something worthwhile after all. 
But it was very difficult for me. I didn't even know a lawyer. I had 
no money. My classmates actually bought me a law dictionary. 
And I was on food stamps, so I couldn't go to lunch with them. I 
had to go down to the 7-Eleven near campus and get something. It 
was very hard for me. I didn't like law school. I didn't enjoy it. I 
certainly enjoyed the respect that came with it, while at the same  
time having very mixed feelings about that because I knew I was 
still the same person. But it was good. Those were good years.  
 The best part was not the actual schooling, which I also enjoyed on 
some level very much. It was a hell of an education. But, we started 
the Gay and Lesbian Law Students Association. Prior to law school, 
I had been director of what was by then called GALA, the Gay and 
Lesbian Alliance. Or  no, actually, that might have been my second 
year of law school. It was. Second year of law school, I’d become 
very involved with GALA. Therefore, through that, learn about 
what the student government does. Then, my third year of law 
school, I was president of the student body, which was really a cool 
and interesting experience. But, again, I was doing everything I 
could think of other than study hard. Although, just to get through, 
you had to study hard. 
Raiskin:  What were some of your accomplishments as ASUO President?  
Long:  Or, if we could backtrack and— Okay, can you tell us more about 
your campaign? This was, you were running for ASUO President.  
Pinckney:  That's right. It was a president of the student body. The woman 
who had been president before me was also a law student. I 
understood that some other law students had been student body 
president at times. I kept thinking, "Why would they want to do 
that?" Then I finally understood that the student government, at 
that time, it was a lot of money, had $4  million to spend. And ran 
all these student organizations, and got to meet with the university  
president every week. And traveled around the state and met with 
students all over the state. And met with legislators. All of a 
sudden, I realized that this was a really interesting job, and that it 
would be very meaningful to be an out lesbian student body 
president.  
 So, I ran for student body president, and I came out before the 
election. There had been other gay and lesbian people in that role, 
but I'm not aware that— certainly, no one here at the University 
had been out. We later learned people were saying that it was the 
first large university in the country that had had a student body 
president who was gay or lesbian, who had come out before the 
election. I remember meeting with some of the powers that be in 
the state, and saying, "Gee, is this a good time to do this?" and them 
encouraging me.  
Long:  What kind of people were they?  
Pinckney:  Well, when I was— I probably shouldn't name names, but there 
were people from Portland who were interested in this happening.  
Long:  Okay.  
Pinckney:  And they were just encouraging. They were saying, "Yeah, go for 
it." 
Long:  What was it like to run for a political office on campus and be out?  
Pinckney:  There was a lot of support. I felt like, especially after the election, 
that it was like this real friendship between me and the whole  
campus. It was hard to describe. People would stop me on the 
street and say, "Lynn, come on in, dinner's almost ready." I'd go 
through the line at the cafeteria in  the EMU and this elderly African 
American woman stopped me and said, "I cut your picture out of 
the newspaper. It's on my fridge. You're one of my heroes." This 
lady's been serving lunch at the University for thirty  years. Stuff 
like that happened.  
 Really bad stuff happened too. I'd go into my office, and we'd get 
the messages off the answering machine in the morning. People 
would just call up and just say gross, horrible things. People would 
yell things. For a long time, I wore, on my backpack, this button 
that said, "That's Ms. Dyke to you," because you had to kind of try 
to reclaim some of that stuff because it was horrible. There was just 
this heightened awareness of being just this vanguard person out 
there. I went on the radio and got interviewed for local TV stations, 
and constantly gave interviews for, not just the campus newspaper, 
but for the RG and for the Oregonian. 
Long:  The Register-Guard. The Register— 
Pinckney:  Yes, sorry. No, for the Oregonian. 
Long:  Yeah, and the Register-Guard. 
Pinckney:  And the Register-Guard. I'm sorry.  
Long:  Yeah.   
Pinckney:  People called and talked to me on the phone from all over the 
country. There was a newspaper in L.A. that called. There was the 
Washington Blade  in D.C., and there was a Boston Collective 
newspaper.  When I was elected, it went out on the AP wire service, 
and there were people from high school contacted me and said, 
"I'm in L.A. and I read about you in the paper."  
 My current partner, who was planning to come to the U of O Law 
School at that time, lived in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Her brother  
threw the Milwaukee paper down on the chair and says, "Looks 
like you're going to the right place, because they just elected a 
lesbian student body president there." Who knew we were going to 
marry and live together  for thirty  years, so far. It was just this huge 
thing. It was just, you kind of almost set aside your personal life at 
that point. That's what you're doing.  
Long:  What were the nuts and bolts of running the student government 
like?  
Pinckney:  When I went in there, there was a telephone on my desk, and it had 
six lines. I didn't know how to answer the phone. Fortunately, there 
was a secretary, and there was a woman who worked as an 
advocate with the student government. They helped me out a lot, 
but it was a big operation. We had to appoint students to forty  
committees all over the University. We had to develop a budget for 
the next year for $4 million and present it to the Incidental Fee 
Committee for approval. We had a newspaper to publish that  
represented the student government. And we had to develop all 
the programs that we wanted to develop.  
 We set the bar pretty high. We did things like we established Safe 
Ride, which we actually took $16,000 and went to Portland and 
bought a van. Well, no student government had ever done that 
before. We had our conflicts, shall we say, with the administration. 
They didn't want us to take things like that on, but we were like, 
"Well, wait a minute. Women are getting attacked on campus at 
night, and we know you have these little blue light boxes every 
once in a while, but really, let's just give them a ride." We had 
heard about, in Madison, Wisconsin, they had developed a 
program like that. They called it the Women's Transit Authority. 
We loved that. So, we created that. 
 We really wanted the University to divest from South Africa. We 
won that battle, but we had to lose it and then they did the right 
thing the next year. But they did do it. But we  had to try to pay our 
attorneys. We'd had a lawsuit against them for a long time. We just 
wrote a check for $20,000 to our lawyers. They were like, "Wait a 
minute. We're not going to let you do that." So, giant battle. That's 
another story. They did eventually get paid.  
Raiskin:  Who was the UO President at the time?  
Pinckney:  Paul Olum, who was just a wonderful and delightful person, and a 
respectful adversary.   
Long:  When you think about your tenure as ASUO president, if you could 
just name a few things that stand out to you as your major 
accomplishments, what would those things be?  
Pinckney:  Well, first of all, I think that gay people participated differently in 
the University after that time than they ever had before. I can't say 
that was my accomplishment, except that I set the stage for it to 
happen. Because we lost every battle for gay rights we took on on 
the campus. We wanted gay people to be able to live in, what was 
then called married student housing. I remember talking to— 
during this one really intense meeting, talking to a woman who 
was in the Student Affairs Department. Paul Olum was sitting right 
there, and me saying to them, "So, what you're saying to me is that 
there's no place for my family to live as a student at the University 
of Oregon?" I remember this woman saying to me, "Well, you know 
Lynn, just step back and think about it. It really isn't discrimination. 
It just feels to you like discrimination."  
 We lost all that stuff. We didn't succeed. But it wasn't very many 
years later when the University created a committee to move on 
and actually begin to deal with issues. I think, in some ways, kind 
of co-opted some of the refreshing nature of our movement, but 
that's another story, too. But, we forced the very top people at the 
University to deal with us very differently. I remember one of the 
vice presidents had a gathering at his house, and showing up in 
tennis shoes with a bunch of dykes. I'm sure that they had never  
had their living room full of lesbians before. And it was obvious. 
But we changed that process  permanently.  
Long:  So, you were ASUO President for one year, is that the term?  
Pinckney:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], right.  
Long:  And then you stopped being president, and then you continued 
with law school?  
Pinckney:  I should have graduated then, but I finished law school— I took an 
extra term because I was— the job took too many hours, at least the 
way I did it. So, yeah, I finished law school. Then I went to work as 
the student advocate at Oregon State University in Corvallis 
because they wanted what we had after I was done with them.  
Long:  How long were you there?  
Pinckney:  I was there for two years. I didn't get very far. The university 
administration was much more conservative. But, we were able to 
at least do a better job of informing students there how to challenge 
the university, how to do a lot of the things that the student 
advocate position here at the U of O did. I kind of laid the 
groundwork for that there. Never really took off. Although we did 
establish a Safe Ride there.  
Raiskin:  What year did you meet Jodie?  
Pinckney:  She came to  the U of O in— I met her when I was student body 
president, so 1985. She wanted to come and look at me, so  
somebody brought her to look at me and they looked in the 
window at me.  
Raiskin:  Do you want to tell us about how you got to know her and your 
romance? 
Pinckney:  Sure. We knew each other as law students, and she participated in 
the Gay and Lesbian Law Students Association, which, at the time 
we called Lambda Lambda Lambda, or the Tri-Lambs. I knew her, 
but we didn't date. But after law school, she  came to see me, while 
she was still in law school, because she got involved in student 
government. I was in Corvallis and she came to visit me. We went 
to a concert together. Then got to know each other from there.  
Raiskin:  When did you get together?  
Pinckney:  Well, 1988.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Pinckney:  We went camping after the bar exam. I failed the bar the first time I 
took it, and was taking it again then at the same time as Jodie. We 
actually went to lunch at the bar and her friends were hassling her, 
"What are you doing? You're trying to get a date. This is the bar 
exam." Two-day horrible exam. But, anyway, we started to date 
long distance. Then in 1990, we married and moved in together. I 
moved to Eugene because she had a good job by then, and I was 
traveling around a lot anyway because I was Executive Director of  
the, what was then called the Oregon Student Lobby. It's now the 
Oregon College and University Student Association.  
Raiskin:  When you say you married, what do you mean?  
Pinckney:  I mean we— We were very conservative. We sent out invitations to 
family and friends. We were married in our backyard in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  What was the legality of that marriage at that time?  
Pinckney:  We signed our wills and our powers of attorney at that time.  
Long:  So, this was before domestic partnerships?  
Pinckney:  Before any of it, 1990, yes.  
Long:  So, it was more like a commitment ceremony, but you considered it 
a marriage.  
Pinckney:  It was. It was. My parents came. Her brothers traveled across the 
country to come.  
Long: Wow.  
Pinckney:  Her brother sang at our wedding.  
Long:  I think we've only mentioned Jodie's first name.  
Pinckney:  Right.  
Long:  The person you're talking about—  
Pinckney:  Is Jodie Mooney.   
Long:  And Jodie is her nickname.  
Pinckney:  Right. Josephine Mooney. Josephine Hatcher Mooney. She's an 
elected official here. She's currently a Circuit Court Judge.  
Raiskin:  I know you've been interviewed about this before, but what were 
your plans to have children, or to raise children? What was your 
thought about your family?  
Pinckney:  Well, I had always wanted to have kids. I knew a few lesbians, 
early on, who had children, mostly from failed marriages, but I was 
always fascinated by that. That here were these proud lesbians with 
these beautiful  young people. So, I saw myself sitting with a young 
girl and showing her how to bead a necklace, or whatever. 
Anyway, I had this idea that it would be wonderful to raise a child. 
That was one of the reasons my first partner and I split up, is that 
she said she had no interest in children.  
 At that time, back in the ‘70s, gay culture was really gay culture. 
We didn't want to get married because that was too much like 
straight people. We called people who had children, “breeders,” 
okay. We weren't even necessarily monogamous. It was different. 
But there was this kind of sea change, and I think many of us 
understood that, "Okay, it's that whole assimilation thing." As 
assimilation becomes possible, you gain and you lose.  
 We focused on the gain and wanted to have kids. Jodie and I had 
talked about having kids. We didn't right away because I got really 
sick about a year after we married. Poor Jodie. I was diagnosed  
with severe rheumatoid arthritis, and it's been a feature of my life 
ever since. But that desire to have kids never went away. So, we 
did. We had two kids. I tried to have kids, but there's a delay in 
achieving pregnancy with people with rheumatoid arthritis. Also, 
Jodie was younger than me, so she volunteered. We had two kids. 
They were born in '97 and '99. They're now nineteen  and twenty-
one. 
Raiskin:  And you were involved in lesbian parent groups? 
Pinckney:  Yes. We helped start what I know of as probably the second lesbian 
parenting group here in Eugene. The first one was LMNOP.  
Raiskin:  Which stands for? 
Pinckney:  For— 
Raiskin:  Lesbian Moms ‘N Other People.  
Pinckney:  And other people, right. But we weren't part of that group. We 
were just behind having our kids. So, we formed the group that 
was eventually named, against my better judgment, the “Rainbow 
Rascals.” That group still meets. Still does a little community 
service work. And still camps out together once a year. At first, we 
met every month for the kids to play together. We wanted our 
children to know that there were other families that looked like 
theirs right from the start. And they always did know that. They're 
all friends on Facebook now, and still show up at each other's 
graduations and such. It's been good.   
Raiskin:  I remember hearing you talk about lesbian parents that you knew 
in Eugene filling a role of super parents in schools and volunteer 
things.  
Pinckney:  Sure.  
Raiskin:  I'm just struck by your memory being six years old and hearing this 
horrible story. Really, I've never heard anything so horrific. Then 
seeing yourself, from that story, becoming a parent yourself, and is 
there any connection between what the expectation was of lesbian 
parents and what you wanted to show?  
Pinckney:  I'm not quite sure what you're asking.  
Raiskin:  Something about stereotypes about whether lesbians can raise 
children, what you wanted to show as a parent?  
Pinckney:  Well, in some ways, I felt that I had always been one of those 
people who was just way out there. And that if that was something 
that I could do, I should do it. I was the little girl who was carving 
other girls’ names into a tree. I was the girl who said to my friends 
at age twelve, "Well, I guess the fun's over now. We're supposed to 
grow up." I was the girl who kissed a girl behind the high school. 
And was part of the Thespian Club in high school. I was out a lot 
of— to as many people as I could be, as much as I could be.  
 I kind of lost one of my first jobs I ever had in a nursing home 
kitchen because I was tired of being invisible. I went down to the U 
of O  bookstore. It was the only place I knew where to get it. And  
had the letters, gay pride, ironed onto a white T-shirt and wore it to 
a staff meeting. They were not happy with me after that. I quickly 
lost that job. Partly my fault, but their's too.  
 So, the idea of being part of this group of people parenting, and 
showing that we were about living, what for us was normal lives, 
and raising healthy kids, and being a part of society. A full 
participant. That's what I used to always say. We want to 
participate fully in the richness of life instead of living on the edge. 
For me, parenting was part of that, that I would parent as an out 
parent. But I wasn't going to creep around the school. Instead, I was 
going to be the Chair of the PTO, and that's what I did.  
 You make some sacrifices doing that too. I had to work to get 
invited to the volunteer meetings because I wasn't invited at first. 
The way you did that was by doing the work nobody else wanted 
to do. So, I did all the fundraising. I put together all those baskets at 
all those fundraisers, all those auctions. I went and asked 
somebody to give us a bicycle, something the other mothers didn't 
want to do. And I did all that stuff. And gained some respect in the 
process. Not only from them, but from my kids.  
Long:  You've talked a lot about the excitement about being in a gay and 
lesbian community, but we do have a general question, which is, 
were there specific joys about being a part of a lesbian community?  
Pinckney:  Well, we were free. Once you're an outlaw, you don't have to 
follow the rules. We felt that we were creating our relationships,  
and our families, in a way that suited us. We put together a 
household, at one point, that lasted about six years, where it was I 
and my partner, and my best friend, who was a gay  man. We lived 
together, and loved each other, and supported each other. I 
remember people at work— This was the nursing home, going, 
"Must be like Three's Company." That was a TV show at the time, 
where two women lived with a man. That was the only context 
they had for what we were doing. But we knew what we were 
doing. And we all loved each other. The only sexual relationship in 
the house was between my partner and I. But we created this 
family that was not like other families. And you could do that, and 
acknowledge it, that, "Oh, we love Tom. He's part of our lives." In 
the straight community, there is no context for that. We didn't see 
that happening beyond roommates in college, but we were past 
that. My partner and I, at that time, talked about having kids, 
and— 
Raiskin:  Do you see yourself as being a political activist around issues of 
aging? Lesbian aging? 
Pinckney:  I have not been, and yet some of us are talking about what kind of 
community we will create as we age. I think that that very much is 
on many of our minds.  I see us just beginning that process. I'm 
sixty-three. My partner's fifty-six. A number of our friends are 
between those ages. It wasn't too long ago, a couple we've been 
close to for many years, were talking about moving to the country, 
near the beach. One of them said to me, "Would you ever consider  
going and living on land like that?" She was warming up to some 
kind of invitation. I said, "You know, I love that idea, but I'm too 
medically fragile to live that far from good medical care." As a 
group, I see us beginning to talk about what this might really look 
like. 
 Then we have some role models, who are just a few years older. We 
know this one group of people who are around age seventy. They 
knew each other all their lives, and met and vacationed together off 
and on. A few of them knew each other from college, and so on. 
They've all gradually moved to Eugene. So, they have this 
community. It's very intentional that we're going to take care of 
each other. It started out as four couples, and one of the people in 
one of the couples passed away, which kind of was the urging 
point, They all sped up their plans. The rest of them, the seven of 
them, are now in Eugene, and they're keeping an eye on each other. 
So, it's like, "Okay, there's that." And then there's the possibility of 
actually going someplace and living together in some way.  
 There's another couple, who we've known since childhood, or I 
have, who are in Portland. They're like, "You know, I think we're 
going to start moving toward Eugene." We're like, "Good, because I 
think we're here for a while." So, I think people are beginning to 
talk about this.  
 Using the word “activist” is a little bit hard because, for me, there 
have been times I considered myself an activist just for openly 
living my life. And other times when I considered being an activist,  
it's doing something a little more than that. Doing something to at 
least put yourself in the public eye or something. So, I don't know. I 
don't know if I'll do that piece. Certainly, I'll openly live my life and 
share that with people. I feel like I'm right on the edge of what 
that's going to look like.  
Raiskin:  Since you've had dealings with the medical world, do you feel, as a 
lesbian, that you worry about your care, your medical care as you 
get older, or attitudes about lesbians in the medical world?  
Pinckney:  Yes, but less about being a lesbian as about simply being an aging 
woman. I feel that I'm often  discounted, not believed. There's 
always this series of hurdles. An old, fat woman with a chronic 
disease, trust me, has some uphill battles to fight just to get their 
attention. Often the issue of being a lesbian doesn't play into those. 
It doesn't even come up. When you go to the emergency room, they 
don't ask you if you're a lesbian. But they can see all the rest of it. 
It's right there. I'm sure they can see the lesbian thing too, but— 
maybe  it's more than I realize.  
Raiskin:  I love your vision of lesbians moving back to Eugene to recreate 
space here.  
Pinckney:  Yeah, it's kind of interesting because I have felt that there was a 
time when Eugene was the place to be. Then, time when Portland 
kind of stole our identity. Every once in a while, they even call 
themselves the Emerald City, and it's like— 
Long:  Is there anything else you'd like to bring up?   
Pinckney:  Wow. I guess I should've anticipated that question. Eugene's been a 
good place to  be. It's a place where we really made a home for 
ourselves, really in kind of a sea of grass seed. It's been a liberal 
place. It's not as liberal as some people think it is. It's very 
polarized, actually. It's been a good life here. It's not a place I 
intended to stay, but I did. Good jobs. Good people. More fabulous 
people than I could get to know in a lifetime, really.  
Long:  Well, thank you very much. We appreciate it.  
Raiskin:  Thanks so much, Lynn.  
Pinckney:  You're welcome.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  