
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History 
Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University  of Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and 
University Archives. This is an oral history interview with 
Karm Hagedorn  and Lisa Hellemn, on August 3, 2018 taking 
place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the 
University of Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and 
University Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. 
Karm  and Lisa, please let us know if you agree to be 
recorded for this project and that you give your permission 
for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interviews.    
Hagedorn:  I do.  
Hellemn:  Absolutely.  
Raiskin:  Thank you. Welcome.  
Hellemn:  Thank you.  
Raiskin: So, if you could start Karm, first, and tell us a little bit about 
where you were born, when you were born, something 
about your family background or something about your 
early life.  
Hagedorn:  Okay. I'm a Eugene native. I was born in October of '49 and 
grew up here my whole life. Went to Sheldon High School 
where my daughter went years later. So it was really hard to 
try to be an adult when I went back to high  school for her 
events. I was one of the gang and Eugene was one of those 
kind of classic fifties, early sixties places to grow up, I think. 
It was good for me. I was involved in band and choir and 
theater in school, and that kind of helped me form who I 
was and who I've been for the rest of my life. I was in 
community theater after school.  
 I spent a year or so here [at UO] and then some time at Lane 
and I didn't finish my degree at the time. But was involved 
in community theater and met a  man that was my  best 
friend, and  we were both only children and we thought, 
Well, let's do this marriage thing, knowing that we were  
both gay, gay and lesbian. We married in December of '74 
and had a great time together and realized not too far in that 
the marriage was not really going to work for us because we 
both wanted relationships with people that were 
monogamous and with the right sex.  
Raiskin:  Why did you decide to get married?  
Hagedorn:  I ask myself that same question now and again. I believe that 
there was some self-imposed  pressure that we felt like 
might've been societal, and the way we talked about it was 
we thought we could pull it off. And that tells me 
something. At least that's the narrative that we both went 
forward with. We can pull this off, and our parents were 
thrilled and all that stuff. When we started having other 
relationships that developed then into relationships with 
people that we wanted to be with, we realized that we 
couldn't pull it off.  
Raiskin: When did you realize you were lesbian?  
Hagedorn: I had different feelings about girls in the third grade, and I 
just sat on that forever, it seemed. I did not come out until 
after I met Don, we didn't come out together until after we 
were married. But I didn't have a relationship until about six 
months into our marriage. And it was with a woman I 
worked with at the U of O  bookstore. And we ended up 
being together for seven, eight years. But even in our  
togetherness, we weren't out, out. We moved to Newport 
and worked there. People knew that we lived together, they 
probably knew, but nobody talked about anything.  
Raiskin:  What year was this?  
Hagedorn:  We were together from '78 to '84. Well, we moved to 
Newport in '78, we got together in '75. Newport was a place 
that you could just sort of be whoever you were and people 
think of it kind of as a more redneck fisherman, timber 
industry place. But the good thing about that is that there 
were so many different kinds of people there that it didn't 
really matter. We were accepted for whoever people thought 
we were most places we went. After we split up, I started to 
meet some other lesbians in Newport and it was a small 
handful of people, but we formed a softball team and we 
played people from Lincoln City and Angel Job Corps had a 
girls team, so we had a lot of fun doing that. But it wasn't till 
the summer of ‘84 that I was in the Portland Pride Parade, 
and I was walking along thinking, this is it. No going back.  
Long: Were you still married at that time?  
Hagedorn:  No, we divorced in '79 after not living together for several 
years, just finally did the paperwork. We remained really 
good friends. And he moved to Seattle and then back to 
Portland. And then I was in Portland for a while before I got 
back to Eugene in '85. And in his cavorting around, he  
contracted  AIDS and he died in '89 and it was the saddest 
thing to that point in my life and I miss him to this day. 
There wasn't ever any talk of children because that wasn't 
why we got married, that wasn't part of the pulling it off, 
that was the later for me.  
Long: Before we switch gears, I'd like to ask what year were you 
born?  
Hagedorn:  Forty-nine. 
Long: Forty-nine. So what was Eugene like as a city when you 
were growing up? It must've had more of a small town feel, 
but can you give us your impressions of what Eugene was 
like at that time?  
Hagedorn:  I didn't know any place else and it was bigger than where I 
would go visit my family in Florence where my mom grew 
up and it was a bigger than Springfield. It felt like a big city 
to me. We didn't go to Portland very often, and didn't go on 
major vacations until later where I got to see places like 
Victoria and Vancouver and Calgary and different big cities. 
But like I said, I think it was kind of the quintessence of the 
Eisenhower years where we lived in a— it was called The 
Village out where Gateway is now,  real close to Gateway, 
and it's still there, but that's where it is. And Harlow Road, 
the pavement ended right where I-5 is now, which wasn't 
there then. And then it became gravel and then it became  
dirt. And I grew up in the cornfields and we'd take the 
railroad tracks down through the corn fields and watch 
pheasants fly up out of the fields. We got to ride our bikes to 
Armitage Park and go to the river and catch pollywogs in 
the irrigation ditch, and it was  a good, good childhood. We'd 
follow the DDT trailer coming through our neighborhood 
with our bikes and it's like, Oh, yay! Who knew? Stuff like 
that.  
Long: What was downtown like? Do you remember downtown?  
Hagedorn:  Yeah, Willamette Street  was the gut, we'd drag the gut in the 
later years, and there was a Twenty-ninth  and Willamette 
A&W Root Beer place where you'd drive down there and 
circle around that and then drive back the other way, come 
down to where the Hult Center  is now was the Heilig 
Theater and we'd turn around about there and come back 
and that was the gut. It was just Penney’s  and Bon Marche 
and a bunch of little stores and Broadway and Kaufman's 
and Woolworth's and Newberry's. Thank you. Yes. And 
Quackenbush’s. That was a store that was really  old school, 
it's where the J Michaels is now and a couple of other things. 
And you'd go in and you'd buy whatever you wanted to 
buy, hardware-type store, and they had everything like 
china and silverware and nails and you'd pay and they'd put 
your money in the can and whizzzz! send it up this wire 
thing and they'd make change up in the little change room  
and whizzzz! down your change would come and off you 
would go. So little special places like that.  
Raiskin:  Let's switch to Lisa for your early life— 
Hagedorn:  Please.  
Raiskin:  And we'll come back together. Tell us something about 
your— 
Hellemn:  Okay. I was born in Salem and grew up more of my time in 
Stayton, but I grew up in a little bit different household 
because my mother was British, and she was a war bride and 
they met when he was stationed over there and they got 
married and came here after the war. She relocated here and 
they relocated in Stayton  and up the Detroit Valley area. So I 
was in a smaller town.  
Raiskin: And what year were you born?  
Hellemn:  Nineteen sixty-two. And it was kind  of the same thing, kind 
of all-American. It was a smaller town, but the same type of 
kind of ag background, down at the river, outside  all day, 
every day adventuring, and my mother also really wanted 
us to kind of have some culture so there were music lessons 
and school was important and a big value in all of that. And 
then I was very fortunate because my mother really didn't 
want me to think America was the center of the universe,  
and so we traveled to see my family  overseas. I was very 
fortunate to get several trips back to see other family.  
 And then my dad's family was here, so I had had 
grandparents and cousins and things here as well. Let me 
see, the high points would be. I'm really not very clued in on 
the whole lesbian thing. Much more kind of, I don't know 
how I identify exactly, it depends on the day you ask me. 
But certainly more towards the bisexual because it didn't 
really occur to me as much and I can go back and like think, 
Oh, well, some of those things should have clued me in. I'll 
never forget riding home from, I think it was OMSI, some 
family thing. And one of my parents' friends was sitting in 
the back, and I remember falling asleep against her and 
when I woke up thinking I could die right now and I'd be 
happy.  
 There were these moments that it should have gave me  a 
clue, but it didn't. Then I was going out and I even got 
engaged really briefly and I knew something wasn't right, 
but I had no clue. I didn't know until I was in college. And it 
finally occurred to me and had an encounter with a close 
friend and it was like, “Oh!” And I was like so thrilled 
because like, “Oh, this makes total sense.” The other person 
was freaked out, but I thought, Wow, this is good, this 
makes more sense. But I don't know what else would be 
important about growing up.   
Long:  Did you come to college at UO then?  
Hellemn:  No, I went to Willamette University, and I actually knew in 
third grade that I wanted to go there and I wanted to study. I 
was kind of a weird kid, I was a little odd. I was pursuing 
my master plan.  
Raiskin: Did you know what you wanted to study?  
Hellemn:  Yeah, I wanted to study science and music. I was a double 
major in physics and music.  
Raiskin: And what did you know of Eugene?  
Hellemn:  My dad was the person who had the biggest information 
about Eugene. He felt like Eugene was a very progressive 
place and that it was because of the university and there was 
a lot of good freethinking people in Eugene, that was it. His 
whole goal in life was to have kids who were able to think 
for themselves, and make good decisions and be good 
people. He had that, and he always contrasted that with, of 
course, Corvallis where he said, “Well, that's a more 
conservative place because of all the farmers and the “ag”  
kids and that's where they're going to send their kids. He 
had some big stereotypes about the different places along 
the Valley.  
 But there's some truth to it, but nah. He didn't really quite 
understand how extreme the reputation and stereotype was  
about Eugene until actually later in his life when I took 
him— he wanted to explore Oregon. He loved geology, so 
we took this crazy tour of Oregon and visited all the places 
he wanted to go. And we got over to a place far East, the 
Owahi, and they wouldn't rent us a boat because we were 
from the “Republic of Eugene.” And they had figured out 
that the woman I was with, we had walked in together and 
so they had decided to refuse to rent us a boat.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Hellemn:  I'm going to guess that  it was about '93, '94. He came in and I 
gave him the scoop and he was appalled. He was appalled 
that in his state, that could be the way things were. And I 
said, yeah dad, you need to get out and get out more and see 
what kinds of things are going on.  
Raiskin: So were you out to your parents?  
Hellemn:  Oh, coming out. Let's see. That's an interesting thing just 
because it hadn't  occurred to me to come out. I went off to 
school, figured it out and then I moved away to teach. I was 
a teacher. I moved down the south coast near Bandon and 
down there, there were no groups. I had the same experience 
as Newport because Newport was like— there was also the 
arts community and there's so many different kinds of 
people. And down the South coast in the Coos Bay and the 
Bandon area, there weren't as many people that were out,  
everyone was very, very closeted. And I was really surprised 
by that in some ways. But then a couple of friends and I, we 
started a newsletter down there to try to get some 
community started. We were doing that and then it became 
very, very— I was told by this community that we had 
gathered together that coming out was a really, really big 
deal and that I really had to do it.  
 Like it was a rite of passage and that you really couldn't call 
yourself a lesbian or anything  if you hadn't come out and 
confronted your parents in some kind of— I don't know, it 
was really interesting. I considered it for the first time and I 
kind of was gearing up for it and I invited the parents down, 
because in my family it's more a little bit  more European in 
that the assumption is that you're going to make the right 
decisions and you're going to lead your life the way you 
need to do, but you don't need to like pronounce it to 
everybody. But I was gearing up, I invited them down, got a 
reservation at a restaurant early so there wouldn't be lots of 
people, got seated, my dad went off to the restroom and my 
mother just leaned in and said, “How are things going down 
here? You know, because it's a little bit small.” I was like, 
Oh, they already know. 
 What a silly thing. I felt really pressured at that point, and 
that was like, I don't know, like '83, '84. Really pressured that 
coming out was like this thing that had to be done in a  
certain way or that you weren't legit. I mean, it was really 
interesting because my background just didn't really align 
with that. That was kind of interesting.  
Raiskin:  Let's go back to Karm. What brought you back to Eugene 
and then how did you find Eugene in terms of lesbian 
community when you came back?  
Hagedorn:  I had  just moved from Newport to Portland and friends 
introduced me to a woman who lived here. We got together 
and I moved back to Eugene in the spring of '85, and she was 
well ensconced in the lesbian community. She died a couple 
years ago and when I first heard about this I thought, Wow, 
it's so too bad that Laurie  McClain can't be part of this 
process. And you may have heard her name before, but I'll 
say it again. Because she was feet on the ground activist, 
really involved, even wrote a book I think, and I was hoping 
you could get your hands on. This Could Happen Here or 
something like that, I don't even have one but I hope you do.  
Long: Yeah, we're aware of it.  
Hagedorn:  Okay, good. I got back to Eugene and— 
Raiskin:  How did you meet Laurie? 
Hagedorn:  Friends introduced us at the coast, at their house. Yeah. Let's 
see. Came back in the spring of '85, started a painting 
company, Three Sisters Painting, because I learned to paint  
houses in Portland when I lived up there for a year between 
Newport and here, and thought, well I could do this. So I 
did and that lasted a couple of years and then I was kind of 
itchy for what to do next and I worked at Starflower for their 
last six months, and it was time to find something else. I 
went back to school. I had started some counseling at the 
time, and realized that I was indeed  smart enough to go 
back to college. So I did. And I got a degree in sociology, 
women's studies and English, which propelled me right out 
into the job market [chuckles].  
Hellemn:  Well, it worked out.  
Hagedorn:  It worked out.  
Hellemn:  It was the skill set you needed, eventually.  
Hagedorn:  That's right. When I was going to school, I was in a couple of 
choirs here on campus and really enjoyed the singing again. 
And then I was out of school. Oh, in the meantime I got a job 
ushering at the Hult Center, and one thing led to another at 
the Hult Center. After I graduated, I got a clerical job there, 
entry level.  
Raiskin:  Tell us what the Hult Center  is. 
Hagedorn:  The Hult Center for the Performing Arts. By now  thirty-six 
year old building in downtown Eugene, which I helped 
petition for when people would come out of MacArthur  
Court having attended a symphony. That got built in—bond 
measure passed in  ‘78, opened in ‘82 and I started ushering 
there in '88. And I was the events  manager for seventeen  
years after that clerical job, and then applied for the Hult 
Center  manager in '07, and got that job. And then two years 
later, my boss retired and I became the Cultural Services 
Division Director for the City of Eugene,  which oversaw the 
Hult Center, Cuthbert, public art and community events.  
 It was such a good job for me. It wasn't easy and it was 
managing people, and all kinds of people and passionate 
artists that wanted a whole bunch for not very much money. 
And commercial promoters who— some people you just 
hope you never have to deal with, but I did. And so 
managed the staff of 150 and again, really diverse staff from 
ushers to stage crew to marketing and programming and all 
of those areas. And I really did love it. And I retired in 
August of '13, and while I loved it, I don't hardly ever go 
back there. I miss some of the people, but I walked away 
from my work and I'm fully ensconced in retirement.  
 But back to the singing, I enjoyed the choirs at the 
university, and I thought watching a Portland Pride Parade 
with some friends in the summer of '88, Pat Shirley  said to 
me, as the Portland lesbian choir went by—they were a year 
old by then— “Karm, you should start one of these in 
Eugene.” I said, “Well, maybe after I graduate.” I graduated  
in August of '89 and the next month I started a choir, and I 
called some friends and there were six of us and Sheryl. 
Sheryl's my partner, Sheryl Bernheine, six of us in our living 
room, and we sang songs that we knew from high school 
and we sang Beatle songs along with the record.  
 And one week led to the next and we started moving to 
different people's houses each week. And then by January, I 
think, it became necessary for us to have a rehearsal venue. 
There were seventeen  of us at the first performance in the 
Unitarian Universalist Church. I think we sang three songs 
and we were very well received. That March we sang at the 
Women's Day celebration downtown and it was all a  
cappella and stuff that I had arranged mostly three-part 
harmonies for, and taught them like feeding a little bird. I'd 
sing a  part and then they'd sing it back and I'd sing the other 
part and they'd sing it back. And finally nobody  had 
anything written down. Week after week we'd sing those 
same parts and we finally got, so we had, I don't know, ten 
or twelve songs under our belts and we were  really proud of 
ourselves. That first year was monumental.  
 I had an awareness that I wasn't just starting a choir, that 
these people were coming together for  more reasons than  
singing. When the next September rolled around, we were at 
the Eugene Celebration and there was a stage on Willamette 
and they asked us to sing. And that was kind of amazing  
because that was exposure and people from all over town 
were going to see us, and  we had named the choir by then 
and it was Soromundi Lesbian Chorus of Eugene. And lots 
of lesbian choirs in the country didn't even have lesbian in 
their name, but that was really important to us. There it was 
on the banner and who, but who should come up  to me 
afterwards and say, “Ever think of having an accompanist 
for your choir?”  And Lisa introduced herself, and so we 
started chatting and I said, matter of fact, that would  be 
great. So come on down. She started joining us at rehearsals 
and off we went.  
Raiskin:  Was it hard for some women to be in the choir because it 
was out.  
Hagedorn:  It was impossible for some women to be in the choir.  
Long: A lot of talented women.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah, talented or not, I mean, Soromundi was never an 
audition choir. We didn't know if anybody had any talent 
until they start singing. And my theory in starting the choir 
was we can all sing if we all sing together. Some people 
believe they can't sing, and I've found that that's a myth. I'd 
say ninety-nine  out of a 100 times, there've been a few 
people that have proved me wrong. Somehow they just can't 
break through that place to learn how to carry a tune, and I  
believe that's all about listening, but that's a whole other 
interview. So, when Lisa came on board— 
Hellemn:  It wasn't completely easy.  
Hagedorn:  No. There were some objections to having somebody 
playing the piano, and you can speak to that better than I 
can.  
Hellemn:  Well, it's just that I was absolutely amazed as well. Well, I 
thought because I had some training and  skills in the area, I 
thought I might be able to lend a hand. And I thought that 
could be a real positive thing.  
Hagedorn:  And I was open to that.  
Hellemn:  Then I was really surprised that in this world of this lesbian 
choir, it was my first encounter with a lesbian choir, but I 
was very excited first of all, the idea because I think music is 
so powerful and I think it gives a great chance, like to focus 
people and orient people in a goal, and it's about teamwork. 
There's so many things about it that I thought fit perfect. But 
then when I arrived, what I found was a lot of like— you 
correct me if I say this the wrong way or if I'm too strong in 
it. But it seemed like a lot of people who didn't trust any 
leadership, were searching to find their own voices and they 
would block just because they had the power to raise an 
objection. I mean, really difficulty trusting leadership.   
 And Karm  was a great leader and a strong leader, but 
everyone was trying to express themselves. I think everyone 
felt like they were  very much into feeling empowered to 
make decisions, even if they had no skill, or weren't thinking 
about  the decisions they were making.  Even  to obstruct was 
a powerful thing.  
Hagedorn:  It's powerful to block consensus, and that's how we operated 
at the time. And that's really powerful.  
Hellemn:  It was about a year later that I went and I was talking with 
my mother and I said, “Boy, I am working with a really 
interesting group of women down in Eugene.” And I said, “I 
don't know if I know how to work with  them.” And we had 
some really interesting talks about the choir, and she said, 
“You can only lead by example, you can't lead by telling.” 
But we had some really interesting conversations about how 
she would approach a group like that who were very 
mistrusting of authority and leadership because they wanted 
their own way, wanted to reinvent a way. It was a real 
culture shock for me. And it was really hard because I feel 
like I come from a little more of objective place where I was 
like, you're all about diversity, but you're also making really 
hard decisions about things, and sometimes to the exclusion 
of certain people. And that didn't make sense to me either.  
 It was culture shock for me because I hadn't experienced the 
more kind of radical— and I have so  much more  
appreciation now, but maybe I was a little younger and 
hadn't gone through some of the things that I hadn't gone 
through the same certainly rejection and some of the what 
would you say, it's almost damage, we've gone through so 
much trauma. Some  of our members had experienced such 
trauma in separating from their families, and being rejected 
by society or being bullied or harassed or—a 
Hagedorn:  It's part of why they showed up.  
Hellemn:  Or in other times molested and abused. People were 
carrying a  lot of baggage that I didn't understand at the time.  
Raiskin: What were some of the objections or conflicts that came up?  
Hagedorn:  Well, it was mistrust of whatever my motives appeared to 
be. And the thing that finally made me snap and take a five 
year hiatus in year five, was I had met a really talented 
woman at a music camp and I came back and I wanted her 
to open for us at our annual concert, and I wasn't able to be 
at that meeting where they were going to decide that or how 
much to offer her or whatever. I was naive in thinking it 
would just happen, and I heard back that I had sent someone 
to do my bidding and how dare I assume that this was going 
to happen. It seemed so simple to me. And even after five 
years in, I was naïve. But everything I tried to  do in order to 
further the, I would say professionalism, because that's the 
business I was in, in the performing arts, further the  
professionalism whether it be no tank tops on stage or who 
knows, it was met with this hard resistance. And there was a 
core of people that tended to keep that going.  
Hellemn:  Yeah, I think a lot of people were wanting to exercise their 
power.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah, I called it, “Eat your leader.” [laughs]   
Hellemn:  That's kind of the manifestation it had.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah, so they did.  
Raiskin: How many people were in the choir at this point?  
Hagedorn:  Fifty-five-ish when I left. And up until that time officially I 
was the director and Lisa was the accompanist, but people 
didn't see what happened backstage in the rehearsal room 
where she was doing a lot of the “moving us forward 
musically,” with her—  
Hellemn:  Well, yes and no. Because you were always such a strong— 
Hagedorn:  Well, that's why it worked though. That's what we've always 
said. We were the perfect team because she had that and I 
had a lot of this and I could get that— 
Hellemn:  During rehearsals, I could take down the dictation, I could 
write down the music she was giving out.  
Hagedorn:  Right.   
Hellemn:  It saved us a lot of times. I had some of the skills to be able to 
save us time and be efficient.  
Raiskin: What kind of songs did you sing?  
Hellemn/Hagedorn : [sings] “Chains, my baby's got me locked up in chains.” 
That didn't go over very well. [laughs]  
Hellemn: It did with a certain group.  
Hagedorn:  It did with a certain group. That's the group that prevailed 
actually. We sang a lot of early women's music and folk 
songs and— 
Hellemn:  Testimony— 
Hagedorn:  Yeah. Ferron, Testimony, lots of Sweet Honey stuff, because it 
was easy to teach.  
Hellemn:  Tumbleweed.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah. My first pop tune was an arrangement of Tumbling 
Tumbleweeds, and Don't Fence Me In. That was— 
Hellemn:  A mashup.  
Hagedorn:  I know, it was.  
Long:  I'm wondering how the finances worked. You needed a 
certain amount of money to operate the choir. How did that 
work?  
Hagedorn:  Well, right off the bat, even in that first year, everybody who 
wanted to stayed and sat down on the risers that we stood 
on to rehearse in Whiteaker Elementary, which is now I 
don't know what, but old school in the Whit— is it even still 
there? Everybody stayed for the business meeting. I think 
there might've been dues even that first year, but we didn't 
need much. We printed T-shirts and paid for those ourselves 
and there wasn't music to handout, and I didn't get any 
money.  
Long: When you would perform somewhere, let's say you're 
performing at the Hult Center, was there a booking fee for 
that? How did that work?  
Hagedorn:  Well, at first concerts yeah, we would have to pay rent, and 
we hoped to make that back in the door. But then it did get 
more complex as the years went on and we  became a 
nonprofit in '91. It didn't take us long. Started in ‘89, it was 
either '91 or '92 and then formed a board, that was part of 
the requirement. And there's been a strong board ever since 
and one of those positions, one of those chairs is finance.  
Hellemn:  It's grown into a really healthy organization. One of the 
healthiest organizations I've seen like over time with 
sustainability and very ambitious.   
Raiskin: How long has Soromundi  been in action? How many people 
are in it now, and how much turnover has there been over 
the years?  
Hagedorn:  Starting season thirty, which has always been confusing 
because '89 is  when we started the choir. In '19, we'll be 
thirty  years old.  
Raiskin: How many singers are in  it now? 
Hagedorn:  Ninety-five. 
Hellemn:  There's over a hundred on the roster. I think there were 
eighty-nine  on stage in our last spring concert.  
Raiskin:  And have these people participating changed over the 
years?  
Hellemn:  They always do.  
Hagedorn:  Yes. 
Hellemn:  Because people have different things going on in their lives.  
Raiskin:  So can you estimate how many people have been involved 
with Soromundi over the thirty  years?  
Hellemn: Oh my gosh.  
Hagedorn:  I did this not too long ago. And I was thinking it must be  in 
the like twelve, thirteen, 1,400 people.   
Hellemn:  Yeah. Because people come into town, and they're here and 
they spend two or three years with us and then they move 
into other areas or they move from other areas.  
Raiskin: Is it interesting gauge about  the lesbian community in 
Eugene over the years. If you've got 1,200, 1,300 people over 
the years who have been part of this one cultural— 
Hagedorn:  Interestingly enough, when I went back to school in '87, I 
became really aware of the town and gown  thing. And it's 
still kind of rare except for Lisa and a couple of people 
where university people and Soromundi intersect. I can only 
think of a handful that have lasted any time at all. I want to 
go back to the health of the organization for a sec. I did  take 
a hiatus because I really couldn't put up with the resistance 
anymore. And one of the reasons that I didn't want to was 
because we had a new baby and our little dear baby was 
born in November of '92 and I left the choir in March of '93. 
And Lisa, bless her heart, kept it going. You can talk about 
the ways that you did that, but I think it's really important to 
know that as an entity, the fact that it's still here, really the 
existence was in the balance at that point. And lots of choirs 
have come and gone just because of this very same thing, 
and particularly back in those days.  
 But among the many things you did to keep it going was to 
decide to not put up with any crap. I don't know how you 
did that because there was a lot to put up with.   
Raiskin: What where your strategies?  
Hellemn:  Well, it's too bad that this tape is going to be made public. I 
hate to give all my— 
Hagedorn:  You can say as much or as little as you want to.  
Hellemn:  I find that in leadership, especially with this particular 
organization as much as my mother preached leading by 
example, there was also a part of my mother's teaching style 
that was somewhat manipulative. I was raised to think that a 
good teacher was a master manipulator, but was doing it all 
for the right reasons. And so I really thought that first of all, 
the group had no idea what they were losing, in losing 
Karms' leadership. And they had no idea of the power that 
leadership could have, but at the same time, they really 
wanted to be empowered. So there was kind of a two-
pronged approach where they had to feel like their future  
was in their own hands. I entered into a contractual 
agreement with them about finding them a replacement.  
 First of all, I told them that their main goal should be to find 
a replacement director. And that, that's where they should 
spend some of their energy knowing that anyone who had 
the formal training that they sought— They were seeking 
someone who had some training, knowing that anyone that 
had that formal training and that was what they were really 
looking for, would not be interested in leading that group,  
because of some of the difficulties that we've talked about. 
The other side of that was to talk to them about, until that 
point, here's what I would need to lead your group. That 
ended up  where I could get leverage to put a few things in 
place.  
 One of those things was that they couldn't just stop rehearsal 
and question my decision about whether we were going to 
do this or that in the music. If it had to do with music, it was 
in my authority. I couldn't have used that word. But it was 
my responsibility, that would be a better word. Because you 
couldn't even say business committee. Then steering became 
an issue. I mean the language was so— why we got hung up 
with language I can’t remember.  
Hagedorn:  PTSD!  
Hellemn:  So we did that, and I left rehearsal twice. I had to leave two 
rehearsals, where I said, “This is fine for you to do this, but 
then I'm not able to lead your group.” I had to really hold 
them to that. And I said, “You make the decision about 
whether you want me to lead you through this time or not.” 
And it was really hard. It was really hard. And I had many 
conversations with my mother about how I was going to 
deal with this group of people that thought that they were so 
enlightened and forward thinking, but they couldn't trust 
each other. That was really hard.   
Long:  You don't have to name names but were there were a few 
bad eggs who caused problems or was it like pervasive?  
Hellemn:  Well, with the perspective that I have now, I would say there 
is no such thing as a bad egg. I mean, even the people that 
we deal with now who have past issues that they bring, 
traumas, or mental health needs or challenges, it's messy 
part of leadership and especially in such— Because Karm  is 
right, I would say only a third of the choir is there just 
because of music. There are people that are there because 
they need acceptance. They need a community and they 
need acceptance for the unique people that they are, and the 
unique challenges that they offer a  social community. There 
are people that really do want a social aspect. There are 
people who are activists, and there are people who have 
very different views from one another. And I think that's 
where I think the biggest success of the group is that we 
have a healthy organization that allows for that diversity.  
 I mean, we still are challenged. We are challenged by the 
discussions in education we have around trans issues, 
around open membership issues and all of that.  
Hagedorn:  But we have a grievance policy that's in the handbook, and 
we just have everything in place to— 
Hellemn:  To ensure that we can get through the tougher times.   
Hagedorn:  Yeah. Those of us that are so inclined look at the needs for 
sustainability and sit around the board table once a month 
and think what's it going to take, to take care of this? And 
then that gets put in place. It's a work in progress and 
always will be, but there are certain things you can plan for 
and certain things that you can't, and those still come up. But 
there's  so many good heads at the table, that— 
Hellemn:  And there's a culture now of more mature kind of— 
Hagedorn:  Which is the “by example thing.” too. 
Raiskin:  I'm thinking of the specific dates that you had to step away 
in ’93— Bailey's born in  ‘92, and then that's also when 
Measure 9 comes through. Was Soromundi involved with 
fundraising or performing for any of these ballot measures, 
or any gay political activities?  
Hellemn:  Absolutely. I think the first one that I recall is the one over in 
the Springfield City Hall steps when Springfield  had a city 
ordinance. And that was the first one I think that we got.  
Raiskin:  Three-ninety-four?  
Hellemn:  But we were at a lot of different rallies and we were at the 
OCA, when it got defeated up and then Downtown Athletic 
Club. We were in all of those. In fact, we would rewrite 
songs, we would rewrite the lyrics to songs and sing them  
about the OCA, or wouldn't it  be nice if we could marry. It 
was like we were always doing things like that.  
Raiskin: So many of your songs, as I recall some were just, just plain 
beautiful. Others had a double entendre  or be able to say 
things like, “Wouldn't it be nice if we could marry?” in a 
time period where it wasn't a reality. But the songs as even 
as they were written, sung by different people meant 
something different. Can you tell us something about your 
choice of music and songs?  
Hagedorn:  Give Song Selection a  go. 
Hellemn:  Oh my gosh. So this group, they're pretty amazing. They 
choose two thirds, 70  percent  of the music that they're going 
to sing. And that makes it hard on us, because we then have 
to arrange it and figure out how to make that happen. But 
it's really great because they all come together, and not only 
do you get lots of different ideas, so we are so 
nontraditional, non-choral traditional. But they come 
together and they bring lots of ideas and they play them all, 
and then they go through them and they sift through them 
and then they look at variety. And I mean over the years 
they've really gotten really good and it's a very democratic 
process.  
Hagedorn:  This is like seventy  people out of the choir that show up for 
this one day. And there's been a lot of pre-work that goes  
into it where people submit by April, somebody sifts, 
somebody now gets a little snippet of the chorus  and the 
pertinent verses and somebody else knows where to queue it 
up during the big day and everybody has little dots that they 
get to vote on this title and that title and “Well, what are you 
going to do with your seven dots?” And you can't load up a 
song and you have to have so many in this genre, so many in 
that genre.  
Hellemn:  It's become quite a really amazing process. And it's the only 
group in the country that does that.  
Hagedorn:  And that was from early on, we had that going at the end of 
year one. We got together and— 
Hellemn:  We wanted to have the membership have a voice in what 
they were doing.  
Hagedorn:  And part of the impetus for me to start this choir to sing was 
that I always had the lowest voice of all the women, and I 
wanted to be in a woman's choir that had that low rich part 
for me to sing. When I would divide the group up into three, 
the low part was something that women had not been able 
to sing before, if they didn't have this, at least alto-two range 
where you could get up to whatever, and then on up. And I 
always sang with the tenors. My high school director 
allowed me to sing with the tenors, the boys, so I was the 
girl tenor. And I did that in choirs at the university as well.  
Then Lisa came along and made all that, I was going to say 
official, but knew how to score things and so forth, but she 
carries that on and that to this day there's a nice low bass 
part and then it goes all the way up to whatever our capacity 
is.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about the Mother's Day concerts?  
Hellemn:  It started to be our spring concert was kind of around the 
Mother's Day. 
Hagedorn:  But I think it was because of the availability of the venues. 
When we were young, we could get Campbell Center for not 
very much money because it was available that day because 
nobody else wanted to rent it on Mother's Day. So, then the 
Campbell Center thing turned into Hult Center  Studio, and 
then the Studio turned into Soreng.  And it was on Mother's 
Day for a long time. Then it was Mother's Day Eve when we 
went to  the Saturday night thing. But then it became the 
third Saturday when we were ensconced, the Hult Center’s  
schedule. And that has recently changed and it's too bad. 
There’s  so many resident companies at the Hult Center  now 
that want the Studio, that next year is the first year that 
we've been kind of relegated—to my way of thinking after 
running that calendar for so many years—to Memorial Day 
weekend?  
Hellemn:  I can't remember.   
Hagedorn:  I think it's the Saturday of Memorial Day and we'll see what 
happens.  
Raiskin:  How many people in the audience would come to hear your 
Mother's Day concerts?  
Hagedorn:  How many does Campbell seat? About a hundred. And then 
when we moved to the Studio, that capacity there is about 
225. And we would fill them most of the time. We filled 
Soreng technically once, and then very close, many years in 
a row lately.  
Raiskin:  How many does that hold, Soreng? 
Hagedorn:  Oh almost 500.  
Raiskin:  That's a big concert.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah. And that's just right.  
Hellemn:  I have to say, too, that in terms of values and like the whole 
getting the membership involved in the song selection is a 
really huge thing. I think the other thing that's really 
interesting and different about this group is it really is a 
community choir. Anyone can walk in the door— well, 
identified as a woman— 
Hagedorn:  That took a year to process. You had to identify as a woman 
to join the choir.   
Hellemn:  —and join the choir. Yeah. It's not audition. You can be a 
person who can't match pitches and join the choir and have a  
place to be in work on that. And even though that presents a 
lot of challenges for us musically, it's also a really important 
aspect of who we are. I don't know of organizations that are 
that wide open that get to go every year and be on the Hult 
Center  stage, and that to some of our membership who 
haven't had a background in performing, that is just a really 
amazingly special opportunity to really push all year and 
work towards a production at that level. We've been at 
various places up and down during the years and in and the 
groups that we've had, but we try to keep a trajectory going, 
and it really seems like we're at a place where it doesn't 
matter who walks in the door, we can pull this off now.  
Raiskin:  Are there women who couldn't be in the choir because of not 
being out in the beginning of the choir who were able to join 
later?  
Hagedorn:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Interesting.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah. Teachers could only rehearse and sometimes not even 
that, they weren't confident enough that they wouldn't be 
seen going  in and out of this particular building on Tuesday 
night at seven o'clock or whenever it was.  
Long: And then they could join after they retired?   
Hagedorn:  Either after things loosened up a little bit culturally, or yeah, 
they'd been working long enough that their staff might have 
by then known that they were lesbians, and then it was OK 
and then legislation happened and the progression made it 
more safe.  
Raiskin:  Were there people who rehearsed with you but didn't 
perform?  
Hagedorn:  Yes. 
Hellemn:  There still are a few that don't always feel, because there 
might be a photo or a Facebook image that goes up and so 
they're not always so inclined to be okay with that. But very 
few compared to how it was in the beginning.  
Hagedorn:  And we have to have them sign things about photographs, 
that's something that came up that we had to take care of.  
Long: Are there any trans women in the choir?  
Hellemn:  There have been.  
Hagedorn:  Not right now that I know of.  
Hellemn:  Well, that's a really hard question sometimes because of 
privacy. Certainly there are people in the choir who identify 
as queer, or sometimes gender fluid and so— 
Hagedorn:  Non-binary—  
Hellemn:  Yeah, definitely different things. In fact, the first time that 
we had to really work on understanding transgender issues 
more was we had a couple of different women who were 
going to transition.  
Raiskin:  To become men?  
Hellemn:  To become men. And while they were going through the 
early— it was really hard for them because they were 
leaving their community, they were being asked to leave 
their community. And then on top of that because they were 
no longer identifying them, that was kind of difficult, too. 
Thanks to a couple of the women who were brave enough to 
bring up those issues. And they came in and started—And 
then we had a member, Joy, was our oldest member for a 
number of years and very involved in her church and 
needed to know more about this. She invited a couple of 
women to her farm and they had discussion groups, and 
they created a lending library.  
Hagedorn:  Joy Hainsworth. You should get her name on tape.  
Hellemn:  Yeah. She was really wanting to understand this more, and 
she made it her priority to get discussion going about this so 
that we could be of support to the women who were leaving  
the choir to transition. And then we  have  had a male to 
female person who joined the choir and was there for a 
season and a half. And I wish I knew more about the  
experience, and whether they felt supported, but to me it's a 
member of the choir. We'd do what we can leadership-wise, 
but I don't know what the behind the scenes always is.  
Hagedorn:  Well, it always depends on somebody's social skills, and 
somebody's ability to fit in or whatever you want to call that, 
about how accepted one is, anybody, not just—  
Hellemn:  No, because we've had that also with our straight singing 
members, who identify— 
Hagedorn:  Right. You don't have to be queer, you don't have to be 
lesbian to be in the choir.  
Hellemn:  Yeah. And we have had times where we've had to intervene 
on because of really poor social skills or judgment or just 
inappropriate rudeness, where people who  were really very 
much in the mindset that  this is lesbian space, lesbian-only 
space, this is safety, and carrying that through, even though 
we now have  more, I think we have more choices because of 
the work that was done through some of those very people, 
as separatists, we now have more choices for people to use 
that space and the organization differently, but not everyone 
feels that way.  
Raiskin:  Why do you have women who don't identify as lesbian in 
the choir? It's a lesbian choir?   
Hagedorn:  As long as someone was willing to sing under the banner, it 
was okay.  
Raiskin:  They're understood as an ally.  
Hagedorn:  Yes. 
Hellemn:  Absolutely.  
Hagedorn:  I think to the group when the first couple of gals started and 
there were two that came together, if I recall correctly, that 
was the premise. These people are our allies, and they 
identify as women obviously, because that was our criteria.  
Hellemn:  There were some before that that were discouraged. This has 
been an ongoing thing.  
Hagedorn:  And I didn't know that.  
Hellemn:  Yeah. Even when you were gone, there were people that 
joined the group that were discouraged from continuing, by 
the membership, certainly not by me. Because then I had to 
call them out, because I didn't believe in that. So for me, if 
you're working with your allies and— we would sing for 
Clergy  and Laity  Concerned. We would sing for every 
community organization that would give us voice, because 
in order to break down stereotypes, I thought it was 
absolutely necessary to get out and work to build coalitions, 
but that's not how everyone in the organization believes. But  
I happened to have a couple of extra votes for being in a 
leadership position.  
Raiskin:  Can you think of a particular concert that was scary to do?  
Hellemn:  No, because I can't really relate to that. I don't relate very 
well to that. But I can tell you when we were going to sing at 
a church, and they called and they were very— I'm a little 
clueless when it comes to some of that stuff, and they called 
to ask me and they were very concerned about recruiting.  
Raiskin:  That you would be recruiting lesbians from the 
congregation?  
Hellemn:  Yeah, I guess. Well, I understood later because they meant 
converting people I think is what they were trying to get at. 
Anyway, it was a ridiculous idea.  
Hagedorn:  It's not in our by-laws  [chuckles]. 
Hellemn:  It was so ridiculous, and so I of course heard the question, 
and my response to, “Are you  coming to our congregation to 
recruit?” And I said, “No, we only take new singers in 
September.” I had no clue what they were asking. So, I 
answered the question I heard. But anyway, they were really 
concerned more of the exposure of us to I guess other 
people.  
Hagedorn:  But we got an invitation just three years ago by another choir 
in town, to perform at their concert and we accepted it  
happily, and the venue that they rehearse and perform in 
that this concert was scheduled to happen in wouldn't allow 
us to come because there was “lesbian” in our name— three 
years ago.  
Raiskin:  Where was that place?  
Hagedorn:  Where was it?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Hagedorn:  Northwood Community Christian, out Hayden Bridge Road, 
Springfield.  
Hellemn:  We were uninvited.  
Hagedorn:  Inspirational Sounds is the choir that invited us and they 
moved their concert to the First Christian Church in 
downtown Eugene. Yeah. People ask us these days, “Why 
do you have lesbian in your name?” Because the shift is 
going toward that being elitist. And from what I understand 
organizations are starting to move away from that.  
Hellemn:  It's seen as non-inclusive.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah. Non-inclusive, and that's why we still have lesbian in 
our name.  
Hellemn:  Still relevant.   
Raiskin: Do you have many young people in their early twenties or 
late teens?  
Hagedorn:  More and more.  
Hellemn:  Yeah, we have a few twenties. We have had over the years 
people come to us and ask if their teenager could be 
involved, and we had to have some discussion about that 
because while we want to create safe space and we want to 
encourage and support our GSAs in schools and those 
things— 
Raiskin:  The Gay, Straight, Alliances?  
Hellemn:  Yeah. Well, first of all we have a rehearsal that sometimes it's 
a little more adult.  
Raiskin:  —show up? 
Hellemn:  Our humor sometimes is a little bit— 
Hagedorn:  There's a little language every now and then. It's a little 
bawdy. 
Hellemn:  Yeah. Sometimes we can— 
Hagedorn:  I was the most guilty of all, there you go.  
Hellemn:  But we like to have fun and sometimes we're a little rude. 
Not at anyone's expense, but I don't know that it's always 
teenage appropriate. It isn't really.   
Hagedorn:  No, it isn't.  
Hellemn:  I don't think so. But then there's also the aspect of like it was 
really especially hard, I remember when parents came and 
said, “Can't my daughter come and join your group because 
we want her to have a safe place to be that encourages—“ 
She was into music, she was into songwriting, and it was a 
really hard decision. So, we work to try to find places for 
that person to be, and have community, but we didn't think 
that that was quite us, but we do have some twenty-
somethings and you're right that the issue is now, like that's 
kind of old school. It's like you all have been so old school in 
that whole stuff.  
Raiskin:  That language is so tricky.  
Hellemn:  Language is tricky. It's all new again, you can't say “You 
guys,” because they don't— it's very fun, because all of the 
same stuff is coming out. And so now you've got the twenty-
somethings and a couple of  residents that are just like, ‘Yeah! 
Yeah, what she said!” And it's very interesting what's going 
on culturally. It's also sad that the twenty-somethings and 
thirty-somethings  don't have that lived experience and 
appreciation of— 
Hagendorn:  Yeah, because they don’t get it.   
Hellemn:  —what came before and why they have these people sitting 
next to them that they can't relate to that are so isolationists 
still. 
Raiskin: There's very few spaces for young queer people and older 
lesbians to meet, and this looks like maybe it's one of them.  
Hagedorn:  And this all takes me back to what you were instrumental in 
making this happen a few years ago where we got together 
with Bridging Voices, it was a brand new youth choir in 
Portland. And they came down for a day and we had a 
workshop and they taught us some songs and we taught 
them some songs, and we performed at LCC that night. It 
was our winter concert at Lane. Lisa is such a good 
facilitator in a group like that, she'll call people out if they 
look like they  want to be called out, “And so tell us a little 
bit about yourself” and there was the getting-to-know you 
part.  
 And we usually try to have an icebreaker or two here 
sprinkled throughout. But there were many times in the 
course of the day where there wasn't a dry eye in the place, 
from either choir. And it's just so powerful and moving to 
come together in song. I believe in my heart, there's just 
nothing like it where when all these people from so many 
backgrounds, and there's so much damage or so much this, 
or so much that, get together and sing. It's life changing.   
Hellemn:  It is. That was a fun season because the year before, in 
preparation for that year, I knew we wanted to focus on 
youth and do some outreach. And we were going to tour 
that year, too. We reached out to youth groups up and 
down, all the way to Seattle. She's got a sociology major, but 
I watch her and learn, and I've started to be like, experiment 
on the choir. I love to experiment with the choir. And so we 
had a retreat and I divided people into age groups, which 
pissed them off, really, like right off the bat. But we asked 
them to give some perspective of some different questions, 
and we got such interesting different responses. And then 
we were able to have that discussion at the end  of the 
seasons about here's how it looks like we're viewing things 
differently.  
 But some of it was manipulation because I really wanted 
them to get done sharing their stuff so that they could listen 
when we started working with youth, and not just wanting 
to— so we did that and then we came up with some 
questions that we thought got the most interesting 
discussion and range of answers. And we sent those off to 
the youth groups and then had them introduce some of the 
songs and introduce some of their stories. I remember when 
we hit the Tacoma one, there were, I don't know, there were 
only a handful, half a dozen, ten youth that we had 
interacted with. And it's like, where are the rest of you? 
Well— [mumbles]. And then by the intermission, they were  
on their phones getting all of the others, so they showed up 
for the second half.  
 They just were, a bunch of old ladies singing. It's like, 
“You're missing Creep,” they're holding up their phone. It 
was just really interesting because we've had to do a lot of 
work on our end to be ready to do some of that kind of 
work, but it's really important to work and to reach out 
across generations, it’s really important. And this is really 
great because sharing our stories is just like brings us all— 
we're so all alike, and  it's all the same stuff.  
Hagedorn:  Next years' theme is “Telling Our Story.”  
Hellemn:  Yeah, telling our stories.  
Raiskin:  Do you have children of lesbians in the choir?  
Hellemn:  Yes, we have had. 
Hagedorn:  We have several mother-daughter duos, lesbian and not 
lesbian.  
Hellemn:  The area where we're, I think doing the most work right now 
is in the area of transgender education, just because when 
we surveyed our group, I also like to survey our group 
periodically on any kind of weird number of weird things.  
And in fact there's some data there that if you want last 
year's survey, there's political questions, there's 
identification questions, all of that is kind of summarized in  
that. We had our audience do that too. Some of our audience 
went online and answered some of those things too. That's 
kind of fun. But we found in the survey a year ago that some 
of our members who have transgender spouses, or 
transgender family members were feeling that they couldn't 
completely share who they were. And so as soon as  we 
found that out, it's like, okay, here's an area we've got to 
work on.  
 And so in our fall retreat last year, we started and ran 
everyone through some gender identity training, and started 
working on that issue. We were also hoping to sponsor or 
host the L.A. Trans Choir, it's just a hard sell to get them to 
come to Eugene, Oregon.  
Hagedorn:  Well, they're already split into two factions, two choirs.  
Hellemn:  Yeah, and that's what happens.  
Hagedorn:  In their first year, they did that. And that's what happens, 
just because of everything we've been talking about.  
Long:  I'd like to back up for a second. Lisa, can you, can you tell us 
what your other work was while you were doing the choir?  
Hellemn:  Oh, well I came to Eugene because I was doing graduate 
work. I was a music teacher originally, and I came back and 
did some graduate work here. When I was teaching music, I 
felt I wasn't well prepared to handle a lot of the students  
who are mainstreamed into my classrooms from special 
education, and I was given some very conflicting 
information. I really didn't like the messaging I was getting, 
which was, this is just a social thing. That just didn't sit well 
with me. When I went back to do my graduate work in 
music, I took every special education class I could fit into my 
schedule and started to learn a lot. And what I found is that 
music education and special education are like an exact 
overlay.  
 Your exposure to things, your motor development, your 
emotional development, all of the things that you're looking 
at, you're individualizing things in a music classroom. You 
don't walk in with the assumption that everyone's going to 
get it based on what you do. You have to hit it from 
different— It's like teaching a language. There's that aspect 
of it, too. So, I got very involved in that and they pulled me 
on board to do some supervision. And I started going out 
and looking, and coaching special education teachers. And 
then I made the  switch into that field. Then I ended up 
getting a job here. I work in the college of education, in 
special education.  
Raiskin:  You train teachers?  
Hellemn:  Yes, I'm very fortunate. I work with graduate students who 
have good experience already working with kids in some 
facet, or sometimes they're licensed teachers and they come  
back  and they do a very rigorous program here. And then I 
oversee all their field work and their coaching for their 
licensure. People have no idea it's the third strongest 
program in the country. It's a really good program.  
Raiskin:  How would you say your paid professional lives and your 
work at Soromundi have intersected or strengthened each 
other, conflicted with each other?  
Hellemn:  Mine is a perfect fit.  
Hagedorn:  So is mine.  
Hellemn:  It's the biggest class I have. I mean to try to have people 
come in that don't read music, can't match a pitch, get 
confused by music—  
Hagedorn:  —frustrated— “I don't know what those dots mean.” There's 
every level of that to professionals who could sight read an 
aria cold. So it's everybody.  
Hellemn:  I love it. It's like the ultimate challenge. Like rehearsal is the 
ultimate challenge in trying to keep everyone engaged in 
doing what we're doing. For me, like the pretest is like our 
first gig is usually something in October. This year I think 
we're singing with the Gleemen in October. But that first one 
to then into February to our winter concert and then into 
spring, how far we can get the group, how far can we max 
out and peak at the right moment. The organization and the  
planning of a season and how to get the group from point A 
to point B is just the ultimate really, it feels different every 
year.  
Hagedorn:  And some of these things I'm surprised by, because I took 
last year as a hiatus. I wasn't in Soromundi, but I stayed very 
connected particularly with the board president and a 
couple of those members. If something would come my way 
and I thought somebody needed to know something, I still 
feel the heartbeat. But Lisa and I were just talking about 
what's to come. And in the last year and a half, Sheryl, my 
spouse, has retired as well and we're doing tons of travel, 
travel has become our retirement lifestyle and it's just lots of 
fun. And in our travel plans this last year I was going  to miss 
certain key things. I just thought, I'm just going to step back 
for a year. And we were just talking before Julee found us 
today about what the future holds. And in addition to that, I 
have this notion that I don't want to lead anymore, I'm just 
tired of leading.  
 And it's been a natural thing for me my whole life where I 
saw something needed to be done or started or fixed, I am 
that person. And I went to a rehearsal a couple of months 
ago because we were going to sing at one of our dear 
members memorials, and Lisa included Sheryl  and me in 
that, and I loved being in that room again. And at the same 
time I found that I couldn't not lead. I'm figuring this out for  
myself about how much I can go there and just sing, and be 
under her direction and instead of, “Okay basses, here's 
what we got to do.”  Maybe I don't not want to do that. That 
was a terrible sentence. Maybe I'm not finished with that 
role, but at the same time that I want to step back from that, 
the production has also gotten really big for me, and the 
choir has taken a track toward doing a lot of heavy 
production rather than just singing.  
Raiskin:  What does that mean, heavy production?  
Hagedorn:  What does it mean?  
Hellemn:  It’s gotten crazy.  
Hagedorn:  It means that there's instruments and dancing and— 
Hellemn:  “Cirque de Soromundi!” 
Hagedorn:  —projection and people dropping down from the ceiling on 
a rope  and— 
Hellemn:  I'm sorry.  I know I get totally, totally crazy with it.  
Hagedorn:  No. Lisa has vision and the choir wouldn't be where it is 
today without your vision.  
Hellemn:  Well, they need a goal.  
Hagedorn:  They do need a goal.  
Hellemn:  They have to be goal-oriented.   
Hagedorn:  And this is part of me aging out too, I think. Other people 
have come and gone, and said, I just like to sing and I don't 
really want to perform, but if you're a good singer and you 
just come to sing and you don't perform, then you're missed 
in the midst of that pod that you're singing in. And then 
other people might be adrift and then it's not as good for the 
choir. I'm trying to balance all these altruistic notions about 
what my role is with what I really, really want and trying to 
be authentic about what I really want, and I don't know 
what that is yet, I guess.  
 I loved singing at that memorial, as sad as it was for us. But 
that we just went there and we sang, and there weren't 
people dropping down from the ceiling and people dancing 
across the stage and all that stuff. And she loves that, and 
you should be able to do that.  
Hellemn:  No, it's a headache, it's a nightmare. But what happened is, 
things have changed in the performing arts. And  with the 
rise in a  cappella groups and choreography and all of that 
stuff. And also, if we are going to be sustainable and we are 
going to draw in some of the younger crowd, and do things 
when we need to be able to be kind of relevant. Last year in 
our spring concert, it was about technology and where we've 
come to, it's about communication and how that's changed. 
During the second half, it was really relevant to have the 
data streaming from our Facebook survey, and it was  
relevant to have video introductions or have video stream 
from on onstage. It's trying to make sure that we're always 
looking at new things and new ideas, and what is it that we 
want to do and where do we want to go? That was an 
extreme year— 
Hagedorn:  Oh, good  [laughs].  
Hellemn:  “Cirque de Soromundi,” when we had the— Tiffany was her 
name, like in the ring suspended doing her thing. Okay, that 
was an unusual year, but we'll partner with community 
dance troupes, and that way we're collaborating with other 
people and we're spreading the love, and that's really what 
it's about. And then the next year it was  about having an 
orchestra. Many of our members have never been in a choir 
where they could hear what that's like to sing with an 
orchestra. And everyone should play the electric guitar 
really loud in their life and everyone should sing with an 
orchestra, there's just a list. There's like a bucket list for the 
membership of the choir that I really feel strongly about 
providing opportunities and creating memories. Everyone 
should do a flash mob in the Tacoma mall.  
 And there's just some things that— as a leader, I take very 
seriously my commitment to providing opportunities for 
lifelong memories and moments to people that they 
wouldn't otherwise have. That's part of my  job.   
Hagedorn:  The orchestra thing was a great thing because I remembered 
that we did a nine movement piece that we had done in '02 
maybe, and that was the one that had the Tiffany dropping 
down off the ceiling. But I remembered that the Orchestra 
Next here on campus had played with the Eugene Ballet. 
Through a couple those contacts, Orchestra Next came and 
played with Soromundi, and you couldn't wiggle on that 
stage. It was just packed.  There wasn't room for anything 
else, and she loves that.  
Hellemn:  It's a nightmare. If you talked to me the week before the 
concert, I would say, “What stupid thing did I think we were 
doing?” But in the end we tend to make it work.  
Long:  Karm, I'd like to go back to— you made a comment that you 
and your partner had a child. Can you tell us more detail 
about that?  
Hagedorn:  Oh, how long do you have? Yes, I can. Sheryl  and I had 
gotten together in early '87 and Bailey was born the end of 
'92. And she's an only child. We had friends that were also 
contemplating having children, and so we started a group 
called Happy Lesbian Couples. I think there were eight 
couples, maybe ten, we'd talk about a different issue every 
week. From children to sex to money to whatever. Out of 
that group, I think there were at least  four or five children 
born over the next year and a half or two years. And we did 
all kinds of family things with that group, holidays, and  
somebody dressed up as the Easter bunny and all these little 
kids are running around and having a good time, and they 
don't know any different, it's just how they were being 
raised.  
 Bailey went to Spanish immersion school, Buena Vista, and 
Oak Street Childcare before that. She came home one day 
and she said, “Taylor said, you can't have two moms.” I said, 
“Well, obviously Taylor's mistaken because you do.” And I 
said, “Let me tell you what I think Taylor means. It's true 
that you have to have something from the man put inside 
the woman in order to make the baby grow,”— and she's 
like three. And I said, “We had a helper in order for Mommy 
to get pregnant.” I was Mom, she was Mommy. “And that 
helper was just a nice man that wanted to make sure that we 
had a baby if we wanted one.” And I blathered on, God 
knows what I said, she's three. And finally I said, “Do you 
have any questions?” And she said, "May I please have a 
cookie?"  
 As those things would come along, I would learn every time 
to sort of zip it along. But once she got to school— I didn't 
feel like she was ever harassed. I would ask her from time to 
time, not are you being harassed, but I would bring two-
mom families into the conversation. And the best part of all 
of this is that a year later our dear friends used the same 
donor, so she was raised with a half-brother, and we would  
do Disneyland and all these different vacations together and 
they're still very close. They just moved— 
Raiskin:  You mentioned about the Spanish immersion sibling— 
Hagedorn:  Oh yeah, we had to go around with 4J, Eugene School 
District 4J. One of the moms worked for 4J, one is now on 
school  board, so we had some contacts, but brother Jackson 
put in for the lottery to go to the Spanish immersion school 
because his sister went. And if you did that, you were 
supposed to be automatically waved in.  
Raiskin:  If you've got a sibling in the school?  
Hagedorn:  Yeah, sibling in the school. But they denied him. We had to 
write letters and make a little scrapbook of all these 
vacations we'd been on and pictures of the children from her 
holding him at a week old just to show that they were raised 
as siblings, and even though they have different addresses 
this is who our family is. And they accepted that. So we 
were pioneers yet again.  
Hellemn:  After the threats.  
Hagedorn:  Yeah. They interviewed for Weekly  and we interviewed for 
the Register-Guard  during  one of the OCA things, and our 
reporter was very thorough and took a nice picture of Bailey 
swinging in the backyard, and that was like this big on the 
Sunday paper one day. And then the whole rest of the article  
was that she had gone to the OCA and gotten one of their 
people to talk about how he felt about us as a family and as 
lesbians having children. And we had no idea that's what 
the gist of the article is going to be about. I called her and she 
had a six week old baby. And by the time I told her, and  I 
tried to be kind about it, but okay, I made her cry.  
 It was a very powerful speech that I had, that I felt like I had 
to make about how this made us feel as a family. And that I 
hoped she never had go through this with her six week old. 
And how would you feel if this, and how would you feel? 
But anyway, got my point across and I don't think she's a 
journalist anymore, but  those things happened. We felt like 
we were pioneers in raising this child who was born in 1992. 
We knew one baby who was a year older than Bailey when 
we had her, a lesbian baby. I mean, a child of lesbians. “Little 
lesbian baby, one year old.” [laughs]  
 There were these pioneering steps, so Jackson went through 
Spanish immersion as well. She went on to become a 
successful architect and she's working here, and she's been 
here three years back home from having schooled in London 
and providing us many adventures there. And she's about to 
begin her masters at Portland State so she can go on towards 
being a licensed architect.  
Hellemn:  I was going to say, but being a pioneer also has some really 
ugly sides, too, because there were threats. As people who  
identified with the choir, both of us have been targeted at 
certain points.  
Long:  How?  
Hellemn:  Ugly phone messages, or things like that. One time I went to 
support a fellow singer from the gospel choir, and she had 
invited me out. We were tremendous friends. In my 
graduate work, I was also trying to experience some 
different things and I took the history of gospel stuff, 
because you have so much gospel.  
Hagedorn:  I was in the gospel choir here too. Yeah.  
Hellemn:  My good friend that I was singing with was always saying, 
“Oh, come hear my church choir.” So I did. I went and 
showed up, and seems they had a guest pastor that day and 
I was sitting in a sermon where they called out Soromundi 
Lesbian Chorus of Eugene.  As they said, “Here is where the 
devil's working. Here is where a community accepts a choir 
like this that sings under this banner, how could this be? 
And that's why you have so much work to do here.” And it 
was really amazing to be sitting in the congregation hearing 
that sermon, and then talking to her afterwards and she said, 
“I had no idea that the guest speaker with some person from 
across the country who was making it an example.” 
Raiskin:  There's some pride in that, that that was the example that 
was used.   
Hellemn:  I was pretty tickled sitting there, I have to say. Same thing 
we were invited to sing— what was her name? Janie Spahr, 
one of the first ordained lesbian ministers in the Presbyterian 
church came to speak down in Cottage Grove at their 
church. And we were invited to sing. There are real big high 
points, and there's some really kind of crazy alternative data 
points there.  
Hagedorn:  We were invited to a  Rotary luncheon group probably ten or 
twelve  years ago through a connection.  
Hellemn:  We’ve done a few though. We did that one in the— 
remember the Lion? 
Hagedorn:  Basement of the Red Lion or whatever.  
Hellemn:  Yeah.  
Hagedorn:  That was a little smaller affair. This one was in the Vet's 
Club, lots of people, and people in the choir were little 
atwitter about singing for this traditional group. And some 
of those members didn't come that day and some left. And 
the person who invited us was appalled and very  apologetic. 
But that's what you're going to run into. We're always doing 
that work, I don't think it matters where we're singing. We're 
doing that work.  
Hellemn:  It's the same work, it's universal. That's what's happened 
with everyone now having a wake-up call especially around  
racism, just thinking that it wasn't there or whatever people 
were thinking. But it's always there and there's always work 
to be done.  
Raiskin:  What would you tell a younger person who's politically 
active and creative? What advice would you give them 
about doing the kind of work that you've done?  
Hagedorn:  Find somebody like Lisa  [laughs]. 
Hellemn:  Find someone like Karm. Patience with the people you're 
working with I think is really good advice.  
Hagedorn:  Management skills.  
Hellemn:  I think go out and talk to— create dialogue with as many 
different people, and different points of view as you can and 
just be who you are unflinchingly, but go and have tough 
conversations and be so respectful that you could both 
listen, that you're not just talking and that you're being 
heard. I mean, it's the dialogue that's broken down. 
Everyone's just in their bubbles. And in order to do the 
work, I really think we have to work. We have to find 
common, because when you put us and the Rotary in the 
same room and we're singing, we're all feeling the same 
thing. And that's the thing that people forget.  
Hagedorn:  We did change some lives that day too, in the audience.   
Hellemn:  You just have to remember that one person at a time— we 
have to discover all that we have in common.  
Hagedorn:  And that the bringing who you are, I was so blessed to work 
for the city of Eugene when I did, and my last many years 
there was led by Jon Ruiz, the city manager, and he told us 
in one of our first meetings with him, I want you to bring all 
of who you are to work. Whoa. I had never been told that 
before. I had always brought all of who I was, but once 
you're told that and encouraged to do that— so I would tell 
someone to do that because it was so impactful on me. 
Hellemn:  Well, I mean, even just a woman that's like amazing, because 
so often all of who you are is sometimes pretty strong.  
Hagedorn:  Yup, can be. It's a gamble to tell someone that, but he took 
the risk.  
Hellemn:  Yes, it is. Be careful what you wish  for. I'm very encouraged 
by the young people that I see, and not just the creativity 
and the energy, but the thoughtfulness and the— it's a 
different way and it's really solid. I just find that we're in 
good hands, we just have to get the changing of the guard 
happening  a little quicker.  
Long:  I don't think either of you said what Soromundi means. 
Hagedorn:  Oh I found it in a feminist dictionary compiled by a woman 
who was a professor here at the time that I was going to  
school, Cheris Kramarae, and she included that as the name 
of a far off star. “Soro” “mundi” is also “sisters of the 
world.” 
Hellemn:  Latin. We're going to sing in Latin.  
Hagedorn:  Oh really?  
Hellemn:  Yes we are. We're going to sing a piece from the Mozart 
Requiem.  
Hagedorn:  I better come back.  
Long:  Was there anything that we didn't ask that you would like to 
talk about?  
Hagedorn:  I want to say that through our almost thirty  years, we've 
recorded three CDs, four next year, another one coming. 
Been on tour twice and going again next year, but we've 
done lots of run outs like to Roseburg and Florence and 
Newport. And when we would do that, we would advertise 
to be a “A Mundi  for a Day.”  
Hellemn:  Building bridges— 
Hagedorn:  “Mundis” are the members of the choir. Those have been 
meaningful for smaller rural communities especially. And 
we do as much listening there as presenting. Those need to 
be included in our list of accomplishments.   
Hellemn:  I think those are really impacting. We've been to Bandon, 
Newport and Klamath Falls. We've been to areas where you 
certainly wouldn't find a lesbian choir and invited people to 
come and join us and sing as a member for a day, and it's 
always interesting.  
Hagedorn:  Really important and powerful to people.  
Hellemn:  And we've also given concerts in  rural areas where the first 
half, they don't hear the choir. Everyone's just looking 
around to see who had the nerve to show up, and then in the 
second half, we kind of get more of a concert experience. We 
have had some really amazing opportunities to reach out to 
people around Oregon in particular.  
Hagedorn:  I'm trying to make that as meaningful for us as it is for them. 
We're not just going out and saying, “Look who we are and 
everything we do.” But we're trying to— 
Hellemn:  Community building is a huge  part of who we are as an 
organization. I don't know what else.  
Hagedorn:  That's plenty, that's a lot.  
Hellemn:  That's so much.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Hagedorn:  Sure, thank you. I appreciate the opportunity and for you to 
have us both at the same time, it was great.   
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  