
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections in University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Kendra Morrigan  on November 3, 
2018 taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Kendra, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Morrigan:  I do.   
Long: Thank you.  
Morrigan:  I've never said that  before.  
Long:  Great. Let’s— why  don't we begin with a basic question. Can you 
please tell us when and where you were born and something about 
your early years?  
Morrigan:  I was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, lucky  me. My mother 
didn't want to leave Canada and she kept postponing it and then 
she got pregnant and then she couldn't leave until the baby was 
born. When I was three months old, we moved to Tacoma, 
Washington. I grew up in Tacoma and that's pretty  much my early 
childhood. I have sisters, ten and fourteen  years older than me who 
were good guides, who were aware. Happy childhood, it was good.  
Raiskin:  What was your school like?  
Morrigan:  I went to Frances Willard elementary school, I think Frances 
Willard was an old feminist educator, was right across the street 
from my house. The janitor's name was Harold Butt. I just couldn't 
call him Harry Butt but we called everybody mister and missus. 
Sorry.  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament as a child?  
Morrigan:  Adventurous. The stories are told that they could follow a trail of 
me taking off my clothes and ending up across a busy street or 
something. I like to go, I still like to go. Happy. I like to get along. 
That was good.   
Raiskin:  Did your parents— what were their jobs?  
Morrigan:  Well, in the beginning when we moved to the States, neither of 
them worked. I mean, my mother had a new baby and it was hard. 
My father worked as a longshoreman but it was touch and go. My 
older sisters tell me the stories  because I don't remember, but 
factory workers and— yeah. Factory workers. 
Raiskin:  What brought them to the United States?  
Morrigan:  Well, my father had traveled in the States quite a bit with his 
brothers and he loved the U.S. He thought it was a great country 
and he thought there'd be more opportunity school-wise because at 
that time in Canada you were pretty much tracked. They still had 
sort of a British school system. And my middle sister, we've only 
realized as an older person that she probably had some learning 
difficulties. But there was, I think, more support. My father thought 
the family would do better in this country.  
Raiskin:  What were your high school years like?  
Morrigan:  Wild. Wild. Those were politically riveting times. I graduated in 
1968  and I was fortunate enough to get some advanced classes, 
political science, philosophy. It helped me think and I had my older 
sisters and they would talk about a lot of issues. My one sister was 
married and had two children and she gave money to my sister  to 
go on the Selma, Montgomery March. So, I was brought up— and 
my parents were union people they were in the union. High school 
was riveting.   
Raiskin:  What happened? What did you do after you graduated high 
school?  
Morrigan:  Well, at that time there was a social security program— My father 
was fifty-three  when I was born, so he was old and as long as I was 
a full time student, I got money to go to the university. I wanted to 
get as far away from my family as possible— I mean, I liked them, 
but I wanted to go. So I went to Washington State University where 
the biggest, most exciting things were cows on the road. I was only 
forty  minutes from Seattle. I could have gone to the U of W and 
that would of course changed everything. But I went to 
Washington State University right after high school and I stayed 
there for three years.  
Raiskin:  What did you study there?  
Morrigan:  I started out with psychology, but then women's studies and 
minority studies.  
Raiskin:  What was your social life like?  
Morrigan:  Well, I  discovered alcohol. I liked to party and I was on the wild 
side and I wanted to feel liberated. I grew up, I would say in a 
sexually repressed family. Finding my sexuality was exciting but it 
was with men and I didn't like it. I thought, oh my God, this is— I 
don't know about this. And so then I was doing political work, 
radical groups on campus and then women's caucuses and then 
feminism, women's liberation, consciousness raising. I began to 
think that we had options, we had options. I had never known that  
before, even though I had loved my girlfriends growing up, it 
wasn't a sexual love. It wasn't a— I figured I would get married 
and have children, I wanted children more than anything but I just 
couldn't be with men, and I liked women. To make that connection 
was a gift.  
Raiskin:  When did you first encounter lesbians or read about lesbians or 
find that community?  
Morrigan:  Well, in the women's liberation group, we talked about sexual 
choices and you could be gay, straight or bi. And then we did a 
booklet on how to have sex without getting screwed. We put 
options out for birth control and masturbation was one and 
celibacy and lesbianism. I mean, it was quite radical, this is 1969. 
I'm sorry, what was the question? I'm thinking of— what’s  the 
question?  
Raiskin:  Well, you’re  answering  it, like when you first discovered the idea of 
lesbians?  
Morrigan:  Well, that's when I discovered it. It was all on an intellectual level 
because I wasn't that sexually motivated. I mean grew up 
repressed, never masturbated, never did anything like that then 
was having not very good sexual encounters with men to prove 
that I was free. I wasn't sexually inclined. But when I was in 
college, the first year, I fell in love with Janice Rose. I just fell in 
love with her. I mean, it was wonderful. I said to her, "I love you 
and I think I'm a homosexual." Is what I said. And she said, "I love  
you so much and if only you were a man." I was like, "Oh." Because 
I never wanted to be a man. I loved being a woman.  
 And so, I just put it on the back burner because I wanted to be 
loved, motivated because it wasn't just about sex. I didn't want to 
do the same thing with women that I had done with men because 
that was empty.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any negative associations with lesbianism?  
Morrigan:  No, I found all the lesbians I met quite interesting. You mean 
personally had a bad encounter with someone?  
Raiskin:  No, I mean just the idea— 
Long:  —of homosexuality being a bad thing.  
Morrigan:  I never really heard about women, I heard about men.  My mother 
would tell me stories, like, "Oh yeah, well he's gay." Or— I knew 
that she didn't approve. But then later she did share with some of 
the women that worked at the factories. There were a couple of 
lesbians there. So, later things came out that my  mother would 
share, but I didn't grow up knowing any of that.  
Raiskin:  Did you find a girlfriend or anybody in college?  
Morrigan:  Not really. No. And I still haven't, I mean I've had relationships but 
no. I would say that I have never fallen in love and been in the 
relationship that I would have liked. Now of course I'm identifying 
as non-monogamous because as I come to the end of my days, I  
want more physical pleasure. I think it's a great gift and I'm here, 
my body allows me to be here and my body wants to experience 
things. But it's love-related or interest-related, not just sex, because 
that makes it more fun.  
Raiskin:  Did you finish college or did you leave?  
Morrigan:  I dropped out to join the revolution. My daughter always says, 
what revolution? But it was a revolution. I moved to California, to 
the Bay Area, to work for Vocations for Social Change. It was a 
national clearing house for jobs for social activists. It was a three 
month stay and at the end of the time it wasn't the right fit for me 
but they turned me on to a woman who was no longer with the 
collective, who was a lesbian, who lived in a lesbian household in 
Berkeley.  
 That's when I met my people. I remember walking down Shattuck 
Avenue, past Holy  Foods and there were signs in the window and  
it said, “Rose hips, twenty-three  cents an ounce.” And I'm thinking, 
Rose hips. Oh, that's so sweet. I got turned on to food and herbs 
and vegetarianism and politics. This was a radical household who 
talked about class and race and it was happening. I loved meeting 
those women.  
Raiskin:  What years was that?  
Morrigan:  That was 1971.  
Raiskin:  What kind of work did the women that you lived with do?   
Morrigan:  That's a good question. I think clerical. I think clerical. One was a 
designer, and art, a graphic artist. Most of my friends found odd 
jobs. There was building— we were deconstructing, demolishing 
houses and building, there were construction companies. I went 
into printing, we were getting into the trades but— 
Raiskin:  Tell us more about that.  
Morrigan: Well, that was fun because I started volunteering at A Woman's 
Place bookstore in Oakland. Wonderful, wonderful store. And the 
Women's Press Collective was connected to it. It was in the same 
building. Of course I was interested in the equipment and the 
people that worked there. I started printing with them. And then I 
went to Laney Community College in the printing program. It was 
all about the  revolution and getting the word out to people and 
posters. It was wonderful work and I loved who I was working 
with. I did do a bumper sticker, just a white bumper sticker with 
purple ink in a bold font, “Women are Strong” and I put it on my 
car and within a day someone had taken it off. I thought, oh my 
God, I had no idea that that would be so offensive to somebody 
that they felt they had the right to take off my bumper sticker, 
“Women are Strong.”  Crazy.  
Raiskin:  There was a lesbian construction company  in Berkeley at that time.  
Morrigan:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  Did you know about them?   
Morrigan:  I knew some of the women that worked on it and they would hire 
for demolition because we weren't skilled. We would come but we 
got skills because I had to fix my own Volkswagen. I didn't have 
the money to pay for somebody to do things and we wanted to do 
it all ourselves, so we got power and tools. It was women doing it 
for themselves.  
Raiskin:  What kind of music were you listening to then?  
Morrigan:  I forget their names. I loved them. The women's music that came 
out of the community out of Olivia. I wasn't a huge Cris 
Williamson fan. But the hordes of women, I mean, I could go and 
be with hundreds of women. Sadly, I didn't get to the Michigan 
women's music festival until much later in my life, until I retired 
until six years ago. That was great. I'm sorry that I missed all of that 
music. Cassleberry and Dupree, Sweet Honey In The Rock. I like 
Cassleberry-Dupree and Baba Yaga and they were a little later. I 
mean definitely— and then I got into world music because I 
couldn't stand the lyrics of a lot of stuff in pop culture and I can't 
stand advertising and commercials. I don't want to hear it, so I 
didn't listen to the radio much. We had little cassettes and— 
Raiskin:  How  long did you live in Berkeley?  
Morrigan:  Well, six years. And Berkeley, North Oakland. Six years. Lived in 
collectives because that was affordable. We'd get a big old house, 
four to six of us would live there. I lived in one beautiful place that 
had been  the governor's ex-summer home. A couple of the  
bedrooms had fireplaces in them and sinks. I mean it was quite 
luxurious. But we also had cockroaches. We had to drive those out. 
It was a very happening time. We had women's dances. I don't 
think— Take Back the Night hadn't started yet but we definitely 
had a culture.  
Raiskin:  What kinds of things did the press that you worked at print?  
Morrigan:  Lots of stuff by Judy Grahn. Judy Grahn was involved with it. 
Wendy Cadden did the drawing. Willis  Kim, Pat Parker. We were a 
publisher as well. I mean, we— woman to woman, Max Dashu, she 
and I worked on a comic book, I printed her comic book. The cover 
for, I think B.B. Croach. She did that little 33 cover, Women On 
Horse, Amazons On Horses. That's what we did.  
Raiskin:  Did you know Judy Grahn?  
Morrigan:  Yeah. I lived with her on Teracina  Street. And Alice Mavoy who 
did— Because I was connected to A Woman's Place. Those were the 
people that I was hanging out with. But— 
Long: Can you tell something about her? Judy Grahn.  
Morrigan:  About Judy Grahn?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Morrigan:  Amazing woman. Quiet, powerful. I learned a lot from her. She 
was an older sister. She thought I was a little emotional and I was. I 
was. But good mind, good heart and she really inspired us. I mean,  
there were so many poetry readings in those days and she and Pat 
Parker— I mean they moved our revolution forward. They spoke 
for us and it was good.  
Long: Can you tell us how she did her work? Did she have a separate 
room where she wrote her poetry?  
Morrigan:  She didn't write it in the main house. I mean, she had her own 
room. I mean, she'd sit at the table in the dining room or— I mean, I 
never really saw her— I mean other than when she was at the press 
collective and she was running a press or setting things up. I saw 
her work at the print shop but at the house, most of that was 
private.  
Raiskin:  Pat Parker worked at the press also?  
Morrigan:  No. But she was one of the poets and she was over at the house a 
lot. 
Long: What was your work at the press? 
Morrigan:  Printer. I'd run printing press.  
Long: You actually printed— what  was the kind of printing that you did? 
What was the— 
Morrigan:  Multi-lift 1250, is what we had. We would do— we didn't do 11x17. 
We had, I think— yeah, we did.  
Raiskin:  How did you get trained to do that?   
Morrigan:  At Laney Community College. I mean— and I went to the college 
already knowing how to run our press but I hadn't been doing the 
design and stripping in the black room work, so I learned that.  
Raiskin:  What brought you to Eugene?  
Morrigan:  Actually printing. Jackrabbit Press down in the Growers Market 
building was started by Kate Thompson and her partner at that 
time. I don't know how that part dissolved, but Kate really wanted 
it to be— Kate really wanted it to be a print shop for women. I 
came up, they were looking for a printer. Kate was leaving, so I 
never really worked with her. Jane Gibbons, Frances Buckley and I. 
Amazon Graphics was in the same building on the upper floor of 
the Growers Market building.  
 I came here to do that and I came with an eighteen-month-old girl 
whose mother was having a hard time parenting and she didn't 
want her husband to have the baby because he wasn't a good 
person. She was in this dilemma about what to do. And I said, 
“Well, I've always wanted a child, I'll take Sabrina.” I moved here 
with an eighteen-month-old— with a new job, finding housing, 
getting childcare set up. Those were interesting times.  
 About a year and a half later, Joanne, the birthmother moved to this 
community and stayed here for about five years and we co-
parented. I, in the meantime, had found another co-parent. There 
were three of us that were raising this little girl. I was involved in 
Sabrina's life for many years.   
Long: How did you manage to figure out childcare when you were 
working, when you were here first?  
Morrigan:  Well, I was lucky because the house that I now live in was childcare 
center, it was a daycare center. I found it and it was parents doing 
some of the work to keep the costs down. I had Sabrina and I forget 
what that— I don't think that was the beginning, Wildwood. Then 
later— I don't know what happened to— I ended up with my 
friends, moving into that house, renting that house because it was 
empty. It was a wonderful house. We were four Irish working class 
dykes. That was our identity. We called it the Potato Palace or 
Shamrock Inn and it was an institution in Eugene. It was wonderful 
and it was only a block and a half from Wildwood, which was the 
daycare center where still there was a lot of parent involvement 
who did the work. I did that. I needed community. Children need 
more than a nuclear family or one parent or two. I mean they— I 
wanted Sabrina to have lots of exposure and opportunity.  
Raiskin:  What did Eugene seem like to you when you first came here?  
Morrigan:  It really seemed like a gay town, a lesbian town, but there were lots 
of gay men. I mean we had a gay community. And then there 
seemed to be an exodus. The men moved to San Francisco and it 
became more and more lesbian.  
Raiskin:  You date that to any particular time that they left?  
Morrigan:  Well, I think it was around 9. Wait, which came first? I cannot 
remember. 51 or—  
Raiskin:  Fifty-one. Referendum 51. 
Morrigan:  Fifty-one. It was around '51.  
Raiskin:  That's 1979? 
Long: Seventy-eight-‘79. 
Morrigan: Seventy-eight. Yeah. I moved here in '77.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about that referendum and what it 
meant to the community and your experience during that time?  
Morrigan:  It was mobilizing and there was so much fervor. We were sort of 
done with our second class citizenship. We knew that had to 
change. It was that revolutionary consciousness of what's right and 
wrong and fair and good and just. It was relatively safe in this 
town. I haven't experienced much homophobia in Eugene. In the 
Bay area, I was denied housing because I was a lesbian. She said, 
"No, you're a lesbian I don't want you to live here." I was like, "Oh." 
It hadn't occurred to me, but I didn't experience it here.  
 It seemed like a— There seemed to be so many of us. We could fill 
the WOW Hall with 200 people, 300 people, maybe. We had 
festivals out in the woods. The  I-5 corridor was great for women 
traveling and staying at women's land and there were lots of 
women committed to country living.  
Raiskin:  What was your— well,  talk about the referendum. This was a city-
wide referendum to overturn a gay rights ordinance of the city. The  
city voted against gay rights in 1978. What did that feel like? How 
did people respond?  
Morrigan:  I think that's when the exodus of the men started happening, I 
mean, that's sort of my recollection and then into the early '80s, too. 
How did that— what  was the feeling in the community, the gay 
community at that time? We were going to move forward. I mean, I 
think that that was our consciousness that we were— this is 
unacceptable and we're going to do what we need to do to move 
forward. I had never in that whole, in the whole movement of our 
rights pictured marriage equality or military, except those weren't 
even values that I held. But that was the for— I mean, we  were 
going to be equal and we're moving more and more towards that, 
maybe. Who knows?  
Long: Can you think back to the activities that you participated in and 
working against the Referendum 51? 
Morrigan: Canvassing, talking to people, putting signs in yards, phone 
banking, fundraising.  
Raiskin:  Can you say for us what an average— what  a day looked like for 
you in your life in Eugene, a weekend day or a week day, the kinds 
of places you went and things  you did?  
Morrigan:  Well, we had a restaurant, we had Gertrude's and then it was the 
Wild Iris and Zoo Zoo’s was a hippy place because there was a lot 
of sort of crossover: hippie, dyke, lesbian, the WOW Hall for 
shows. What else? A typical day I would drop Sabrina off at  
Wildwood, go to Jackrabbit press, hang out with people there. It 
was a happening building, lots of Growers Market and Amazon. It 
was fun. Not consciousness-raising but we had study groups, the 
study Marxism or Maoism, to try to get an understanding of the 
economy.  
 I think that I hung out more with people who were also committed 
to ending capitalism because we saw that as a primary cornerstone 
in our oppression and just speaking up, taking our bras, not 
wearing bras. I never burned my bra. This happened in college in 
Pullman but I put my bra on top of my clothes just for fun.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever go to the Riv Room?  
Morrigan:  Yeah. “The Perv.” Oh, yeah. The Riv Room. Yes. And then later we 
had Neighbors. The Riv Room  was wonderful.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe it and “The Perv?” 
Morrigan:  Well, that's what we call it. I don't know if why. We had a bouncer 
at the door and I can't— Butch, his name was Butch. Big, bad, Butch 
who was sort of friendly and nice. But one night I accused him of 
watering down my drinks.  I met a dear friend Toby because I'm at 
the bar and I'm not getting my drink. He says, I'm cutting you off. 
She sidles up to me and she says, "I'll buy you a drink, what are 
you drinking?" We became fast friends.  
 We would dance, hang out. It was a place to go. Because at that 
time we had like Lucky's. I mean, you couldn't even go in if you  
were a woman. We had those elitist joints in this town. This was a 
place where we could go and hang  out.  
Long: And you say Lucky's was for gay, male— ?  
Morrigan:  No, no. It's a straight guy thing.  
Long: Straight guy bar. Okay.  
Morrigan:  A gentleman's club or something but there weren't dancers or 
anything.  
Raiskin:  Did you know people who worked at Starflower?  
Morrigan:  Absolutely. One of the women, Paula Jo Vaden that I lived with at 
the Shamrock Inn was our roommate. Coleen Gragen and who rode 
her bike across from New York City with Moon, she was Crow and 
she lived in the house. She was one of the original Shamrock Inn 
people was Crow and Raven and Raven was Kitty Reilly also from 
New York City. We had Crow and Raven and Paula and myself.  
Long: Can I just ask for clarification?  I don't know if you had mentioned 
the word Shamrock Inn before. Was that the name of the house that 
you lived in? 
Morrigan:  Yes. It was part of our Irish identity.  
Long: Okay. That was down in the Whiteaker?   
Morrigan:  No. At that time it was called far West Eugene. It was right off of 
Chambers on West Broadway. I did live in the Whit. That's where I 
first lived in an apartment building with Sabrina.  
Raiskin:  What school did Sabrina go to when she got older?  
Morrigan:  She left when she was six, so she didn't go to school here. And it 
broke my heart. I realized that I really— I was so happy to find my 
people and realize I was a lesbian but I really wanted to be a 
mother and I could not justify— I didn't— that wasn't an option in 
my head that you could do that. And then I thought, I'm a woman, 
I can do anything, I can have a baby. Even though my mother was a 
little harsh, she said, “Don't darken my doorstep with your 
bastard.” But I thought, okay, that's where you are, but I'm having 
a baby. She warmed up to it. I don't know where I was going with 
that but— 
Raiskin: I guess that's— what  year did you— tell us about having your 
child.   
Morrigan:  Well, Alex Haley's Roots had just come out and I knew I wanted a 
baby. I had now given myself permission. I'm a woman, I can have 
a baby, I can do anything. But before I have this baby, I need to 
know my roots. I went to Ire— I trained, I moved to Arizona, I 
drove my motorcycle to Tucson, Arizona with my girlfriend Sasha 
Stone on the back and then trained until April 1, when I flew to 
Ireland.  
Raiskin:  Trained in what?   
Morrigan:  Biking, swimming, anything I could do because I was going to ride 
my bike around Ireland. I was going to find my roots. I knew what 
County my family was from. I'm training and I'm going to Ireland 
and I decide I'm going to inseminate in Ireland. I'm going to get my 
Irish baby.  
 So, I get connected to some lesbians and I find a group of gay guys 
through them, mostly who are working with the BBC. At that time 
condoms were illegal in Ireland. This gay men's consciousness-
raising group had to really process. It's, “You're messing with 
God's will. Can we really give our sperm?“ Is this weird or what? 
Some of the men decided that they would make a donation and I 
was doing volunteer work in Ireland at that time, rebuilding stone 
walls and anyway, other projects. I got some donations, and it 
didn't work. I had— actually, I lost a pregnancy and that's when I 
knew I had to go get some blood work done because I didn't know 
if I was Rh negative or not. I had this pregnancy and I didn't 
understand, but it was a pretty early-on loss and then I had to let 
my body recover.  
Raiskin:  Can you  tell us first how you, how you got pregnant? The process 
you used.  
Morrigan:  Well, getting the sperm. I had to go to the house and pick up the 
sperm and this guy gave it to me and I hate to say it, I was sort of 
horrified by his looks. I thought, what the  hell am I putting in me? 
Raiskin:  So you didn't choose him?   
Morrigan:  No. These guys wanted  to be anonymous. I thought they probably 
all ejaculated in the same—. I have no idea. It was weird. It was a 
little weird.  
Raiskin:  Did you know any other women who were doing this?  
Morrigan:  No.  
Raiskin:  You were just making this up as you went along?  
Morrigan:  No, yeah. This was what I was called for where I could have 
everything. I could be a lesbian and I could be a mother.  
Raiskin:  What year is this?  
Morrigan:  This is 1979. So, that didn't take, I lost that pregnancy. I got my 
blood work. I wasn't Rh negative. I stayed in Ireland for a year and 
I finally found a lovely donor who— we talked, it was real and he 
said, “I would love to help.” But it didn't work. I didn't get 
pregnant. I was— then  I had another time when I was fertile and I 
was in London and I'm desperate because I'm going back to the 
States. I walk into the Oscar Wilde Bookstore and there's this 
beautiful red headed guy working there. And I walk in and I say, 
“Hi." And he says,  “Can I help you?" I said, “Yes, I need sperm.”  
 I was desperate. I wanted sperm. He looked at me, he looked down 
at his crotch. He said, “Okay, when?” I said, “Now.” He said, 
"Come back at five." And I handed him a jar. I came back at five, I 
got the jar from him. And I had on this beautiful down vest. It was 
green with denim up here, that kind. I just loved that vest. And I  
put the jar in my pocket. And I'm in London with some political 
folks and I brought a political slideshow back from Ireland so that I 
can show it in the States and educate people about what's 
happening in Ireland, in Northern Ireland. By the time I take the 
Tube and by the time I get back to their house, it's all fallen  out of 
the jar. It was a terrible mess! I was so sad. So, I left Ireland and 
England, not pregnant but I'm still on a mission.  
I'm just— I'm thirty  years old. I am at a yard sale on Eighth Street, 
Eighth and Monroe and it's a gay man's yard sale. We're talking 
and I get into a conversation with this guy who says he thinks 
there's ghosts in his house. I happened to know this house and 
because I knew a woman who attempted suicide there. We didn't 
want to get involved with the police so we “coffee’d” her and 
walked her and it was pills. It probably wasn't going to be a lethal 
dose, but we were all concerned. So, I knew the house quite well. 
As a matter of fact, Joanne and Sabrina had lived in that house and 
Carla was their roommate. I said, “Well, I  know how to get rid of 
ghosts.” And I talked a little bit about ghosts and gave him a 
strategy.  
Raiskin:  How did you know how to get rid of ghosts? 
Morrigan:  Well, I identified as a witch for— I'd say ever since I had met Max 
Dashu who was the only woman  I met, the first woman I met in a 
bar that I'm still friends with today. She was a witch. As we were 
exploring feminist spirituality and the power of intention and in 
harmony with the elements and recognizing the seasons. Ghost are  
just people who have died who have left energy here and need to 
be released there. That's my take on it. Z. Budapest had books out. 
We were, we were studying this because, well, we couldn't afford 
to go to doctors so we had herbs and we had to do some— there 
was a lot of radical  therapy and  we were just into self-care.  
 I told him what to do. In two weeks I went back to follow up with 
him to see how it was going. I knew that I was going to tell him 
that I was starting as a sperm bank for women, for lesbians. He, 
beautiful gay man, was horrified. He said, “Ooh, that's disgusting, 
women should fuck.” Well, while we're there, his neighbor walks 
across the street and he's listening to this conversation and how 
he's going up about how  disgusting this is. This man says, "Hm. I 
think lesbians would be good mothers and I don't see any reason 
why this couldn't have— I can understand why lesbians might not 
want sex with men."  
 And so, I just presented it more theoretical because I always tended 
to think big.  This is like for the lesbian community. Really,  it was 
just for me, and I wanted anonymity. I did not want— now,  some 
babies had been born to lesbians who had wanted children. I didn't 
want any complication, I didn't feel I needed a daddy figure  [for 
my child]. After I'd already jumped through the hurdles of could I 
bring a male, could I bring a son, could I be a good parent to a son? 
I knew I could because I had worked at Wildwood and there were 
little boys I was just wild about and little girls, eh. I mean, I can do 
it. I had to jump  that hurdle. And then it was the hurdle of a white  
male or a black child, a mixed race child in a white community. I 
had— once  I got through all of those things. But I did not want a 
donor to be involved. This guy said, "I would do it."  
 I said, “Would you do it? And he said, "Yeah, I'd have to talk to my 
best friend about it." And I said, “Oh, Okay.” Two weeks later I 
went to his house and he said, “Yeah, I would do it. These would 
be my guidelines to protect the woman and child because I might 
get sentimental : I want to be anonymous and I don't want to bring 
more than two children to the earth.” I thought, Done,  we can do 
that. You don't have to know who I am. You will never know and 
I'm only doing it once and so on.  
Raiskin:  But he already knows who you are.  
Morrigan:  He knew but he didn't know I was the recipient. He had no idea. I 
was the recipient. I'm driving a motorcycle, smoking cigarettes. If 
anything, he might've thought it might've been a partner. No, he 
had no idea it was me.  
 I got what I wanted. Over the years I thought, What a great gift I 
got. I thought of his mother and his mother was still living, his 
father had died and he had siblings. I always put a prayer of 
gratitude out because I got a wonderful gift and his family did not 
get to participate in this, but that was okay. I always told McKenna 
a nice gay man who thought lesbians would be good moms, gave 
me seeds to plant in my garden. She never had any daddy 
curiosity. She knew that it was an anonymous gay man who made  
this donation and there was never anything about it, until 
McKenna had known Marshall. His mother was her first preschool 
teacher and her son— 
Raiskin:  Who's Marshall?  
Morrigan:  Marshall is the man that my daughter ended up marrying. They 
met when they were three and four  years old and both went to high 
school, high school together and both went to Brown together and 
decided they would marry. But Marshall's mom was married  and 
couldn't get pregnant and went up to OHSU because they had 
started a sperm— they  had a sperm bank  up there. Oh, and I 
refused to pay per sperm. I knew I couldn't afford to adopt. I 
couldn't do the whole— I didn't have money. So, I couldn't adopt, I 
wasn't going to pay for sperm on a political level. I'm not paying 
for it. That's why I did what I did. But Marshall's mom went to the 
bank.  
 Now here are two children who have been born to women missing 
half of their genetic history. They don't know it. When I know that 
McKenna and Marshall are serious, I said to her, “If I could find 
your donor, would you be interested? And I just remember how 
she sort of turned head, looked at me and she said, "Is that 
possible?" I'm thinking, this is the last mother thing. I need this. I 
need to do this for my daughter. I'm starting a search and I tell my 
mother what I'm doing. She says, “You can't do that. That's not 
right. You can't interrupt somebody's life. You don't know if he is 
married. You don't know if he has— you know nothing, you cannot  
do this. I thought about it because I had promised that it would be 
kept secret. I had— my daughter is like, well, she didn't meet her 
donor until she was twenty-five. But I contact— I find him in 
Portland.  
 He says, the minute he got the letter out of the mailbox, he knew 
what it was. I thought, Wow, that's strange. He said, over the years 
he had thought of me and wondered. But the letter I wrote and I 
wish I'd kept a copy—it was so impeccable  because I wanted to 
write it in such a way that nobody, anybody in his family who 
opened this letter would be too surprised. I just wrote know if you 
remember me, you helped me with the project and painted the 
picture of the porch that we were sitting on. I said, and I've gone on 
to become a public health nurse and I have a wonderful do—. I just 
put it out there. He got in touch with me right away and he said he 
thought of us over the years.  
 But I don't know what he thought because he knew that something 
had happened.  Oh, I know. My father died when I was pregnant 
and when I came back from his funeral, I left the little cryptic note 
at his house that said it worked. But I don't know if he'd heard 
anything else through the community. We all met. He and I had 
lots of conversation before we met and it turned— He said, “I 
always wondered how that turned out because  my partner died of 
AIDS and I knew there was no test and I knew that I had it. In fact, 
I have been living with HIV all these years.” My daughter is now 
thirty-six. “I've been living with HIV all these years.” It was scary  
because I said, “Well, I thought you told me that you were 
macrobiotic and celibate.”  
 He said, “I don't know where you got that. Clearly not.” But he 
lives today and he's— and he's well and McKenna has met him and 
he's met the children, McKenna's two children. His brother was so 
excited to meet McKenna that they were all living in— He was 
visiting New York City  and McKenna and Marshall were in New 
York City  so they got together. Dustin really would have liked his 
mother to meet McKenna but she was— her Alzheimer's was fast 
progressing and he realized that that wouldn't be good. There is a 
connection there. He was an impeccable man. He had told his 
second partner who he’s still with now that he had a child 
somewhere in the world. So, it was no surprise.  It all worked out. I 
got what I wanted, he's happy, McKenna's grateful.  
Raiskin:  What was it like raising McKenna in Eugene? 
Morrigan:  It was wonderful. Those were happy, happy  years. I had a 
community because again, I believe that it takes a village and all 
the women who participated. There would be lesbians who’d call 
me up and say, “I could babysit  if you want.” It was like, “Well, no, 
I think I need to know you a little better.” But, so many women 
who wanted  children. But, as  single mothers or whatever it was 
challenging. But McKenna was well loved and it was fun. It was 
fun.  
Long: Where did she to school?   
Morrigan:  She went to— oh, what's it called? Eastside. I did camp out 
overnight at Meadowlark  because I thought, Oh, I'd like her to do 
Spanish immersion. But there were a lot of flags and they had to get 
up and say the Pledge of Allegiance and I did not want that  
indoctrination. I thought Eastside with a more international 
inclusive—I just thought their politics were better and I liked the 
light. I liked the physicality of the school. It was a bit of a schlep 
because there was no bus service. She was out of—a not  district 
but— her homeschool would have been Patterson and it was just 
too square.  
Raiskin:  She went to South Eugene High School?  
Morrigan:  Hm-hm [affirmative]. Roosevelt and South.  
Raiskin:  She was born in 1985?  
Morrigan:  No, '82.  
Raiskin:  Eight-two.  
Morrigan:  She was born in '82.  
Raiskin:  She was one of the first children of lesbians.  
Morrigan:  Yeah, oh, yeah— only Moon's daughter and Claire's daughter—and 
then around the same time that McKenna was born— Oh, there 
was Val. Val’s son was six months older than McKenna. As a 
matter of fact, I was talking to— I walked over to Martin Luther 
King Park, which is close to my house and it was a really long  
walk. This is at the end of my pregnancy and it's like I'm walking 
through molasses and I sit down at the park and getting up is really 
difficult. And then I have  to walk the block and a half home and I 
take a bath and I get all dressed up in white flowy clothes. I have a 
glass of wine. I laid out on my bed and I'm talking to Val, whose  
son is six months older to the day than McKenna— I'm talking to 
her and I said,  “I'm feeling a little weird now. I think I should hang 
up.” And she said, “Well, your contractions have been five minutes 
apart.” I say,” Oh, okay. I call the midwife and I have lesbian 
midwife, I have a homebirth. Catherine Carr  comes to the house 
and she says, “You are seven centimeters dilated. Let's get this 
happening.” I didn't even really know I was in labor until I was at 
transition but I had prepared mentally, I swam a mile a day, at the 
pool on Fifteenth  when it was still there. It took me four hours to 
finish the process, which is a little long after you're at seven 
centimeters.  
In retrospect, I realized I really wanted a girl. I knew my whole 
pregnancy and I had been thinking about, well, if I have— 
intellectually  I was okay but the practicality  of it and the lesbian 
community at that time wasn't necessarily as supportive of boys. 
That was somewhat toxic. That was a bad  scene. That was in 
Terracina  in Oakland, too. Our sons did not have such an easy time 
and the mothers, consequently.  
 I really wanted a girl. I don't know men, really. I said to my birth 
team, I said, when the baby's born, I don't want anybody saying  
“It's a boy,” “It's a girl.” I just want to love my baby. But I realized I 
was three and a half weeks postdate. If I hadn't gone into labor that 
day, I was going to go to the hospital. Then it was really hard to 
push the baby out even though my body could do everything. So in 
retrospect, I realized it was my— then I was no longer full of 
expectation and hope that I would have reality and it might be not 
what I really wanted. The baby came out, was tossed onto my 
shoulder, there was her little vulva and I was in heaven. I got my 
girl, I had it all. It was so great.  It was so great.  
 I had been doing the writing where you repeat and repeat. I gave 
birth to a healthy baby girl. I gave birth to a healthy baby girl. I 
must've written that a million times and I had it on my alter. One of 
the midwives, the second midwife that showed up, came with a 
little comic where the nurse is handing a bundle, a baby to the 
mother and says “It's a lesbian!” She was not a lesbian. Ida 
Patterson, lovely woman.  
 I had no— I didn't want McKenna to be lesbian and that was not 
important to me. I wanted her to be happy, healthy, make good 
decisions, live well, it was— I felt like I had experience from 
working at Wildwood from understanding child development and 
what I wanted. These were happy times, we had it easy. We had it 
easier than others.  
Raiskin:  For her going through school with a  lesbian mother, did she ever— 
did kids question that?   
Morrigan:   Yes. The 51 campaign was very hard on her. Because I went to the 
Columbia Gorge one Thanksgiving when— things had been on 
television  
Raiskin:  Measure 9, probably.  
Morrigan:  Was it Measure 9? Yeah, 51 was first. It was 9 that really scared 
McKenna because she could see some of the advertising on 
television and her eyes would get— no, she didn't— because we 
didn't really watch television. But at the Columbia Gorge there was 
a television and it was on and we  were  maybe twenty  lesbians 
there. I think someone has brought the video somehow we're 
seeing something and McKenna's eyes are getting big and she says, 
that's not what it's like, is it? That's not what it's like.  
 But she had other hurdles  because I always told her I was a witch. I 
pick her up at school from first grade and she stands there and I 
open the door from my side. She stands there at the curb and she 
says, "I'm not afraid of you." I said, “Well, of course you're not 
afraid of me. I'm your mother. What's going on?” And she said, 
"You're a witch." I said, “Well, yeah, get in the car.” I didn't know 
what had happened but she had told kids at school that I was a 
witch and there was a Muslim family in the school and McKenna 
happened to be— really liked little Mirra. Mirra's mother did not 
like the idea that there's a child saying her mother's a witch. That 
was a witch hunt.   
 Finally, I was called into the school. There had been a ritual killing 
in this community through the Satanists. People were really 
paranoid and I had to talk to the teachers and the principal. I said, 
“Consider it feminist spirituality. The dark side,  that's Christian. 
That's not where I am.” But my daughter was targeted. Finally, the 
principal had to say to the mother of this other child, “Maybe this 
isn't the right school for your child.” Because we weren't doing— 
there  was nothing wrong with McKenna but she'd been called a 
contaminant in the group. How do you call a six-year-old child a 
contaminant? But I remember she was so excited one day because 
Eastside was the alternative school of the other school in that area. 
She met a little girl from that and that little girl said that she had 
two mamas.  
 McKenna didn't really know anybody who had two mamas. She 
came home  and she was very excited that she had met a girl like 
her. It was hard. Most of her friends at school, their parents were 
progressive and accepting. But I think that McKenna would say 
that she had a good childhood. Because I said, "Did I disadvantage  
you in any way, blah, blah, blah?" And she said, "Oh no, mom, you 
prepared me for the world." When I went to visit her—she went to 
Brown—and I went to visit her one parents’ weekend, and her 
friends would come up and say, "I love your daughter. She is so 
cool. She's helped me with—" Because freshman year can be very 
hard and a lot of these kids were not well prepared, but McKenna 
had the grace and the experience. I mean it worked. It worked for 
her.  
Raiskin:  You didn't have very many other lesbian mothers in your circle.   
Morrigan:  No. No, I did not. I did not. That happened a couple of years, a few 
years after and I was then going to LCC to become a nurse and then 
I finished my bachelor's degree at the U of O and then I was 
working for WIC and then public health. I mean, I dedicated my 
life really to mothering to my daughter.  
Raiskin:  Did that take you out of the lesbian circle to an extent?  
Morrigan:  Yeah, it did. And then also something happened, which is— which 
was— I worked at Rape Crisis Network as a practicum for the 
University  of Oregon for credits. I really liked that work;  I am a 
survivor of sexual abuse. Mothers who would call when their 
fifteen  year old had been raped or something and they had 
repressed their own abuse and now this surfaces up. So we're 
doing good work and how many women and children have been 
harmed. It was very good work. I was friends with the woman who 
was a bookkeeper for Rape Crisis Network. She had escaped a 
domestic violence situation, she had changed her name and she 
asked me— she had me cash some checks for her and from Rape 
Crisis Network because she worked there and it was different 
names.  
 I said, "Why do you want me to do this?" And she told me and I 
said, "Well, you earned the money, right?" She said, "Yeah." But it 
was— these weren't forged. She was the person who could write 
the checks and it was, what you call that?   
Raiskin:  Embezzlement?  
Morrigan:  It was embezzlement. She was embezzling and I cashed the checks. 
That hit me hard in the community because it was weird. We were 
at the WOW Hall, actually at a dance and everyone turned their 
back to me. Shunning is powerful. My reputation was ruined. I was 
not investigated by the police— I mean, I cashed the checks and 
then something came out in the Lavender Network. Why would 
somebody rip off Rape Crisis—? I mean— Sally Sheklow  had the 
article and she said, "Well, we never know why people do." But it 
was like, as soon as I read that  I knew it was me because nobody 
had confronted me. I mean I knew that this woman was having 
trouble and the police were investigating but I'm surprised the 
police never questioned me. But Cowlie  said that she took full 
responsibility for it, but it didn't get out to the larger community. 
People can be mean and rumors can be so detrimental.  
Raiskin:  How did they know that you cashed the check?  
Morrigan:  Well, because you could trace them. I mean, I went to my bank and 
cash the check, it was signed over to me.  
Raiskin:  I mean, the community.  
Morrigan:  I think the people that were working at Rape Crisis Network 
shared with somebody. I mean, I don't think they were out to get 
me per se, but I think that's how the story spread. It made me feel— 
not like the community anymore because I would never— I mean, I  
may have done things to get by but I would never— that was just— 
I couldn't— it hurt.  
 I will tell you that I have a lovely house here and lots of friends but 
I think it's one of the reasons I don't want to live in Eugene 
because— it's just painful. Because people think that, whether they 
know now that it's not true doesn't matter. It was a seed that was 
planted and I didn't like that energy. I feel freer and happier away 
from here. But I have a house here and wonderful renters and lots 
of friends so I'm here quarterly, at least and stay about  a week. I 
feel like I'm a migratory person and I like to have my stops.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about your work as a public health nurse?  
Morrigan:  Well, I really didn't want to work as a nurse. I was practical. It was 
practical. I was working at the Springfield Creamery for about 
fifteen  years, packing fruit. I cooked up all the fruit that went on 
the top of the yogurts in stainless steel vats and steam and rubber 
aprons and rubber boots. I could take McKenna there and make a 
bed for her on the crates because I worked at nights and it was 
wonderful. But I was a nurse and I had to get it together. I went to 
McKenzie-Willamette and in my training getting prepared to do 
Med Surg. A friend from nursing school called and said, "They 
want nurses at public health. I think you should put your 
application  in." 
 Through my— well, first I was working at WIC and then I went to 
the hospital and then Patty called and said, "Get your application   
in." I knew that one of the positions was working with women 
addicts, pregnant women, addicts. There was a no facility  that 
would  take a pregnant woman into a treatment facility because 
others  didn't want the risk. And yet, this was very important work 
at this time that we were recognizing serious problems with 
addiction and mothers and children and pregnancy.  
 That was the job I wanted. I interviewed for it and I didn't get it but 
they offered me a position on the communicable disease team. I did 
the HIV testing, the STD clinic, immunizations, disease 
investigation. I did that for three years. That job working with 
women and children in recovery I knew was my job. They had 
already gone through three nurses who couldn't— they weren't the 
right person for the job. One time I was refused because I didn't 
have the RDSI training or EnCase [RDSI]. I didn't have the EnCase 
{RDSI]  training. I couldn't get the EnCare{RDSI]  training because I 
was in communicable disease.  
 I set myself up each time and I was the fourth nurse at Willamette 
Family Treatment Services Center at the time and I was the perfect 
fit. It was wonderful. I brought all my politics, all my experience, 
everything to the forefront of working with women with high 
needs, poor coping, difficult children. I still continued with the HIV 
testing, the immunization, parent education, childbirth prep, 
breastfeeding. I mean, I had certain loves: breastfeeding women 
empowered through birth. I did, “I love my body class” because 
there were lots of women would use meth for weight control or  
whatever. If there was a need, I would set it up and it was the best 
work environment. I was fulfilled. I loved my job and felt 
profoundly appreciated and valued. It was a nice antidote. I filled 
myself up with work and my lovely daughter. I made it work.  
Raiskin:  How long did you work there?  
Morrigan:  I was with public health for twenty-one years and at the treatment 
center for twelve.  
Raiskin:  Is that where you retired from?  
Morrigan:  Yes. Yes.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about your life in retirement?  
Morrigan:  Well, I haven't stopped smiling. I'll say that. I love retirement. All 
my friends say I'm a wonderful role model and I'm pretty practical. 
I mean I had all the things done on my house— like the new roof. I 
had everything done, I had no debt. I had  a car that died 
prematurely and I always liked to have sort of a five year plan and 
then break it down. The car died prematurely and I refused to get a 
car but fortunately only lived a mile and a half on the flat land to 
work, so I rode my bike for a year  and a half. My relationship to the 
environment changed. I could smell the trees and I slowed down. I 
stopped being a compulsive shopper, got out of debt, got fit. It was 
wonderful.  
 But that was before I retired. Once I retired, I wanted to get my 
house ready. I converted the back 305 square feet into a marvelous  
living space with a big deck. That was going to be where I lived. 
And then I could age in place and rent out the front, nice two 
bedroom house. It was all just one house but I didn't need that 
much space. I thought that I would live there and travel. Like I 
said, I wanted to immerse myself in Buddhist culture. I wanted to 
remove myself from this culture. I was in Southeast Asia for six 
months, fell in love with Vietnam, which was the first place I  went. 
It had opened my eyes about war and politics and American 
imperialism.  
 In Vietnam they don't call it the Vietnamese war, it's the American 
war. That's over, that's history. That's over. It was interesting and I 
came back just breathing softer or calmer, feeling better. Of course, 
as soon as I retired, I retired June 1 of 2012 and that was the first 
Michfest, women's Michfest, I went to. That was divine. But I have 
a niece that lives in Madison and so I got to Madison on the 
airplane. I have very little stuff to take and I get a ride from 
Craigslist from a lesbian who's going and I'm sort of dropped off in 
the parking lot all by myself with very minimal stuff. I'm looking at 
this woman with long silver hair and a tie-dyed dress. I'm just 
looking at her and she comes over and she says to me, "Are you 
alone?" And I said, "Yes." She said, "You want to join our tribe?"  
 I joined the tribe. I had a tribe. I had women who had been going 
for years and years and years, who set up kitchen, who set up 
living room. I mean it was like— I had twelve  new friends. It was 
mind blowingly wonderful. I think that year there might've been  
8,000 women there. I mean, I worked in the womb. I did an 
overnight shift and that was the end of my work. I wish I had 
actually done more volunteer work. That would have been fun, too. 
It was such a fabulous experience that I decided not to go the next 
year because it would never be the same.  
 And then the third year I thought, Kendra, that's absolutely 
ridiculous, you got to go back. That's ridiculous. I went back for a 
second time and then I went back the third time, the last, the 
closure. I was glad that I made it to Michfest. It was because I had 
the time, I was free. That happened in August.  
Long: Excuse me. This is the women— 
Morrigan:  Michigan Women's Music Festival. Yes. Yes. I was there the last 
year, there was a concerted effort to bring Michfest down because it 
was really— it was started by women-born-women for women-
born-women. And that was not acceptable to the changing political 
scene. Though I'm glad I got there when I did. I'm glad I got there 
and it's a huge loss for women not to be able to see that. All the 
diversity of color and size and politics, and habits and— it meant 
different things to different people, that festival. But it was 
wonderful. That was in August and then my mother died that 
November.  
 From the time I retire, I get Michfest, my mother's death then I go 
to Thailand and I start my traveling, I have a big trip planned but 
my daughter then is pregnant, going to have her first baby. I'm  
totally into birth and lactation and she wanted me there, so I had to 
postpone. That trip was cut short. And then after the birth of Alice, 
then I had my six months and then a little later little Zoe came. 
That's A to Z. That's the end. Zoe came and then I got eight months 
and I've traveled to probably fifteen  countries since I've retired and 
I'm very happy.  
 I don't have to keep the wolf from the door. This is the first time I'm 
not a wage slave. I have money and I don't have to work for it. I 
mean that's pretty good.  
Raiskin:  This is your retirement money from the— being—?  
Morrigan:  PERS. I got PERS. I have— no, I had no debt. I had everything done 
on my house. When my mother died, my two sisters and I rented 
her house out. For a year and a half she was in a group home but 
she lived in her own home until she was ninety-six and a half years 
old. So that was good. And then now I have my one sister who's ten 
years older who has dementia and things were getting pretty rough 
between those two sisters about how to manage the house because 
they both live in Tacoma, too. I said, "I want out, we need to sell the 
house or buy me out."  
 We've sold the house and I've paid off my house. I thank my 
mother every day for these wonderful things. I still had some of the 
remains of her ashes and I've just come back from Canada because I 
was living up there for a while, Vancouver. Only recently heard the 
story that my mother never wanted to leave Canada. I took her  
ashes to Butchart Gardens in Victoria because she loved gardens 
and then to Stanley Park and Third Beach, these were places that 
she loved. I have a special friend up there who lives three blocks 
from where my sisters went to school and I've been doing some 
work on her deck. I'm there on the deck with the North Vancouver 
across the way and all the crows and the beautiful Vancouver, the 
buildings of Vancouver up there working and just thinking of my 
mother and really stressed about what's happening politically in 
this country. Canada is a different country, different values, not a 
melting pot. And just that I had the privilege and luxury of being 
able to live in Canada.  
Long: Do you have dual citizenship?  
Morrigan:  I do. I have two passports. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What do you mean it's not a  melting pot in Canada?  
Morrigan:  They really believe in cultural diversity and they don't expect— I 
mean, yes, speaking English, you get points for speaking English 
because they believe you should speak the language of the country 
you're in, that that's an important skill. But they don't want 
everybody to be the same. I mean the Pakistanis are the Pakistanis, 
the poonjobs. I mean, now in Vancouver, they have their own 
issues with so much offshore money. But this is fallout, I believe, 
from colonialism in England making a deal to give Hong Kong 
back to “mainland”— I mean, we create our own problems. Now  
85 percent  of the children in a school in Vancouver are of Asian 
descent. I mean, this is a changing demographic.  
 I have cousins, all my cousins are in Canada where they're may be 
the remaining family on the block who speaks English. And then 
there are differences among the Chinese, whether you're Hong 
Kong or whether you were from mainland or— there’s  hierarchies. 
But I don't know how Canada is going to resolve its issues because 
they have issues, too. But they're not— Canadians basically are nice 
and polite and that's very important. They really have a “live and 
let live” attitude. I think more so here where we're so much more 
polarized there, they feel a little more inclusive.  
Raiskin:  How much time do you spend with your grandchildren and what 
are your plans for that?  
Morrigan:  Well, my life got disrupted because Seattle has been my home base 
because my family lives in Seattle but they moved back to New 
York City. They're in Brooklyn. They say, for a year they've rented 
their house out through sabbatical.com and have rented a place and 
this is for Marshall's work. Just shortly before they decided to make 
this move, McKenna's work decided that most of their work could 
be done online from anywhere.  
Raiskin:  What does she do?  
Morrigan:  Solid waste management. She works for an agency that helps 
government and private industry set up recycling and other ways 
of diminishing the negative impact on earth. She's— I never  
thought my daughter would go into solid waste management, but, 
I mean, at a policy level.  
Raiskin:  You think they're going to stay there?  
Morrigan:  They love their lifestyle in Seattle. The reason— and I like 
Vancouver because I really am planning to  move to Vancouver, it's 
close. It's closer to Seattle than Eugene is. They would really like me 
to live in Seattle when they wanted me to. I think when they move 
back, they probably would really like that. I've been close to the 
girls when they lived in Seattle. That was my home base. But they 
just moved this Labor Day. I'm going back to see them at Christmas 
for two weeks. I think Christmas in New York will be fun and I'll 
go back at spring break.  
 Alice in New York City, they have free pre-K. Alice is in  a 
neighborhood school, very diverse. I've seen pictures of all the kids 
and she's happy. Little Zoe has a nanny from Trinidad, I think, 
whose name is Yasmeen. When they were getting ready to move 
back to New York, Alice  wanted to know if Yasmeen was mean.  
But it's all working out, it's all working out.  
Raiskin:  Looking back, what would you say were your greatest joys?  
Morrigan:  Well, I'm really glad I became a lesbian. Someone said to me the 
other day, "Being an Amazon, being a lesbian is a privilege." She 
said, "Think of all the women who don't have that freedom." It's 
like, wow, that I get to be me to the best of my ability, that I don't 
have these cultural restraints that make me live a lie, that's very  
powerful. I'm glad I get to be me. The love of good women and my 
friends, being a mother, helping a community of women in early 
recovery for their own lives and for the lives of their children, I'm 
feeling— And, I'm not worried about the wolf at the door. That's a 
freedom— I mean, I have so much privilege, I understand that 
and— 
Raiskin:  It’s the answer to your daughter's, “What revolution? You're 
actually [inaudible 01:21:43] revolution.  
Morrigan:  Yeah! Because it was a revolution. And— 
Raiskin:  Where do you think things are now? When you think about the life 
you've lived, where are things now for lesbians, for the 
communities?  
Morrigan:  My niece said to me— I was talking about, I don't know, the 
importance of lesbian space or— I don't know in what context. She 
said, "Kendra, you're mainstreamed now." I said, "What do you 
mean we're mainstreamed?" She says, "Lesbians are 
mainstreamed." She's a Unitarian. And I said, "Yeah, on some level 
but on another level, no, we still were a culture." I think it may have 
come out of the conversation around the loss of the Michigan 
Women's Music Festival, or declining ability to meet as women 
born women with other women born women because this is 
something that is harmful to the lesbian culture.  
 I do believe that it's okay for specific groups to meet at ti— I feel 
like I am a specific community and that's real. I have a right to it  
and I don't want to feel bad. I mean, I'm not a transpho but I am an 
advocate for woman-born-woman reality. It's real. Our culture was 
real and it's being diluted and it will be perhaps eliminated. I'm 
glad you're doing this because it's important. It was real. These 
were exciting times. I mean, I don't know. Have you heard about 
the— well, have you heard of Cabbage Lane? Oh, Cabbage Lane. 
Well, then you may have heard the story.  
 Here we are all laying down in a circle outside on our blankets, you 
heard this, this was a masturbation circle. Who else in the world 
did that out in the woods? A circle of twenty-five women lying 
down, all masturbating and hearing the sounds of everybody and 
just seeing the trees up above and then talking about it afterwards. 
I mean, we did process, we processed things, we talked about 
things, we made things up, we looked in our vaginas, at our 
cervixes, we wanted to know how our bodies work. I mean, it was 
like— that was revolutionary. That was— we did things. Our 
relationship to power tools. We weren't dependent on men, and 
that was empowering. That was empowering. And— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe how you became aware of the lesbian land 
movement in southern Oregon, how you got there and when?  
Morrigan:  I was there right at the beginning, even before we purchased OWL  
Farm, part of searching for land. One of the problems because 
women and lesbians in particular generally didn't have much 
money, we weren't getting the best pieces of land. I mean, we were 
getting narrow gorges or something with totally undeveloped  
and— But Max and I, Max was doing the matriarch archives 
slideshow that time. She's a scholar and was very interested in 
female images, in museums, most of the little figurines they're 
bringing up are male— it's pretty much male focused.  
Long:  Who was this? What's— 
Morrigan:  Max Dashu from Suppressed Histories Archives, brilliant scholar 
and with a great perspective over the timeline of thousands of 
years and cultures. Very remarkable woman. I would travel with 
her, I was her assistant. I would drive and we would go to the 
different women's land and do the slideshow or talk politics and do 
circles.  
Long:  What year was this?  
Morrigan:  This would have been 1975 to maybe '74 to '77, '78 right around 
there when I moved to Eugene.  
Long:  Did you ever meet Tee Corinne when she came to the lesbian 
lands?  
Morrigan:  I met Tee, yeah.  
Long:  Cabbage Lane was one of the first women's lands?  
Morrigan:  OWL Farm— 
Long:  And then you were involved in the establishment of OWL Farm?   
Morrigan:  Yeah. I stayed at Cabbage Lane for a while. Cabbage Lane was— a 
lot of things happen at Cabbage Lane. Cabbage Lane was fun. We 
were practicing our building skills and making little houses and— 
Long:  And then can you describe OWL Farm and the rationale for 
creating OWL Farm?  
Morrigan:  Well, the belief that it was very important to have access to land. In 
the revolution, what's going to happen, where do we need to be, 
where can we grow food. And also to be in touch with Mother 
Nature  but to remove ourselves. I mean, I didn't get into dyke 
separatism or anything like that but to remove— to find safe space, 
safe harbor for women and primarily lesbians because this was 
lesbians doing this, for the future. For the future.  
Long:  A lot of women who wanted to live on the lesbian lands didn't have 
enough money to purchase their own property.  
Morrigan:  Absolutely.  
Long:  So, OWL Farm allowed  them to be a part of that land.  
Morrigan:  Yes. 
Long:  At very little cost or exchange for labor.  
Morrigan:  Yes.  
Long:  Okay.   
Morrigan:  Yeah. Because we didn't have much money. We didn't fit into 
mainstream culture very well. I mean, I didn't finish my education 
and become a professional until— well, I graduated from nursing 
school in '85 but I didn't work as a nurse for a couple of— I mean it 
took a while because I didn't want to participate. I wanted a 
revolution. I wanted a [inaudible 01:28:43], I wanted something 
different.  
Raiskin:  What did you think about the marriage equality movement?  
Morrigan:  I just smile. I mean, I'm not into marriage as an institution but  I 
totally am into equality and if you get it, I want to be able to have it. 
It seemed— well, and particularly the complications around when 
one of us was dying and parents stepping in or siblings or— that's 
just not right. That's not right.  
Raiskin:  And with children, too. 
Morrigan:  With children. I believe in equality. Yes, I would support it, but I 
can't imagine ever marrying. Who knows?  
Raiskin:  If you were to imagine a young person listening to your story of 
your life, now or in the future, is there something that you would 
tell them specifically?  
Morrigan:  Well, everything changes and what you think might be will become 
something else. I think staying flexible and aware and mindful is 
extremely helpful. I don't know what the future holds but good 
luck. Sorry.   
Raiskin:  Is there anything we haven't asked you that you would like 
recorded?  
Morrigan:  Not that I can think of. Not that I can think of. I didn't plan on 
going to the very sad part of my tale. But I think our words are 
important and what we say about people is important and getting 
to the truth of the matter, especially now in  a time when truth is 
slippery—thanks postmodernism—but be kind, be hopeful. That's 
what I'd say.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Morrigan:  Sure.  
Long:  Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  