 
Long:  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Special Collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Gail Winterman, on Tuesday, 
August 27, 2019, taking place of the University of Oregon Libraries’ 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender  and Sexuality Studies.  
 Gail, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the University to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Winterman:  I agree.   
Long:  Thank you. Let's begin with a basic question, can you please tell us 
when and  where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background?  
Winterman:  I was born just outside of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1955. 
Grew up in a suburb of Philadelphia, Hatboro. I had four 
grandparents who were immigrants from Russia, but my parents 
were very progressive leftists, had been political activists in their 
day. I had a loving family. Very close to my dad, and very opposite 
my one sister. Very different.  
Long:  What was she like?  
Winterman:  Everything that was important to her came out of the movies, so 
hair, makeup, a man, being on, being looked at. Not much thought 
to career and self-sufficiency. Didn't work out too well for her.  
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit more about your parents' leftist activities? 
What did they do?  
Winterman:  My mother, well, her father was a journalist for a Yiddish 
newspaper. He would bring his comrades home when my mother 
was growing up and they would talk long into the night. My 
mother worked for the United Electrical Workers, they fought for 
the unions and they were part of the Young Communists 
Organization, which was common in those days, progressive 
young people. We were Jewish in a non-Jewish community, and we 
were Democrats in a conservative community, so I always felt like I 
was a little different. My parents were atheists;  they didn't do any  
Jewish rituals except food. Going to Ben and Irv's was a big deal. 
That's a deli.  
Raiskin:  What was their hope and plan for you? What did they want you to 
do? 
Winterman:  Education, and I think they assumed I would live a conventional 
life, but always have— when people ask my sister what religion she 
was raised as, she says “Democrat.” They didn't pressure us to find 
a Jewish partner, so turned out when I did— well, that's a story for 
later.  
Raiskin:  Did they expect you to work when you were an adult?  
Winterman:  I never thought otherwise. They didn't pressure us, it was 
education. You would go to college, so when my sister didn't go to 
college, that didn't fit their plan. I was self-motivated, and asked to 
do things that enriched my life that they just figured I was good to 
go. Very self-sufficient, I identified things I was interested in, there 
was things that my school offered like a lot of video— started out, 
actually, with Super 8 film in eighth grade. Our district had a real 
champion of kids doing video, so I did that throughout  high school. 
My parents didn't— we traveled in New England, but they didn't 
like camping. I wanted to go camping, so I signed up with the  
American Youth Hostels and went camping with them.  
 I knew what I wanted, I knew what I was interested in. They were 
kind of hands off, they didn't question me when I was doing things 
that maybe other parents wouldn't have let their kids do. Go visit  
my boyfriend who was at Boston University when I was seventeen, 
they sort of let me make my own decisions.  
Raiskin:  What were your friendships like in high school?  
Winterman:  I was part of the hippie crowd—big surprise—which was a small 
crowd in our school. We jumped on all the opportunities that 
Philadelphia offered. Went down to Sampson Street, went to head 
shops and went to concerts. I saw Joan Baez at the Philadelphia 
Spectrum for $2 a ticket.  
Long: Wow.  
Winterman:  There was a lot of music, a lot of good feeling at that time. There 
was a lot of angst  around the war, so a lot of us— it was actually 
my idea to do a school assembly and put it together as an anti-war 
assembly. The principal, we happened to have a little window 
where we had a liberal principal, he let me graduate after eleventh  
grade, but we did this assembly where we brought in the Vietnam 
Vets against  the War, they spoke. We read Mark Twain's War 
Prayer, I remember cutting up a book so we could make slides and 
put pictures up with his War Prayer. Then we did some guerrilla 
theater on the stage, and we had some statistics, but not much. I 
was reamed out by my physics teacher that some day I would be 
put in my place, and then the opposing, the opposition was 
allowed to do their assembly, which turned out to be slides of 
statistics, so it was very boring.  
Long:  What year was that, Gail?   
Winterman:  1971 or ‘2, maybe my last year. We also had, I was the producer of 
the Wednesday morning news show, which was on closed circuit 
television throughout the school. My hippie friends, we were all on 
the crew, and we had one doing the sports news, which we weren't 
really supportive of football, so it was kind of a tongue in cheek 
chance for them. We had fun, but I couldn't wait to get out of there, 
because I was eager to grow up and go to college, be in the world.  
Raiskin:  Where did you go to college?  
Winterman:  My bachelors, I went to Penn State, so we were up in the mountains 
and I kept, because I needed to be, I wanted to be somewhere 
where I could grow my outdoor skills. They had a lot of 
opportunities, actually, even through the school. Compass and 
survival, a couple classes.  
Raiskin:  What did you major in?  
Winterman:  I majored in psychology and biology, because  I was focused on 
ethology, which is animal behavior. Those were the years of 
Konrad Lorenz and Tinbergen and all the imprinting geese— that 
was the field I wanted to go in. My last year at Penn State, I actually 
spent a semester at Duke University doing primate research in 
there, but in their primate facility, they have lemurs. I was assisting 
grad students and doing my own project, and I also spent a  
semester on an island off the coast of Georgia, Ossabaw Island, 
studying social behavior of their feral burrows. But there  were also 
other animals on the island and archeological sites that were being  
looked at. It was a privately owned island, and there was a Yerkes 
primate facility had a free ranging troupe of chimps on a nearby 
hammock, so we took the boat there and actually helped maintain 
them and feed them. It was a wonderful experience.  
Raiskin:  How did you get interested in animal behavior? 
Winterman:  Probably give a lot of credit to my father for his interest in science, 
and of course grew up with Wild Kingdom, and the book of Born 
Free, Joy Adamson, all that. Jane Goodall, her first book was given 
to me in high school. Even though I had been thinking of going to 
medical school, my dad put this thought in my mind. I really could 
do anything I want, and that really appealed to me. I threw myself 
into it and was going to continue in the academic world, and didn't, 
partly because I'm here in Eugene and had to make some choices, 
but in retrospect I'm glad I didn't.  
Raiskin:  What were the choices you were looking at when you graduated 
college?  
Winterman:  I assumed I'd go to graduate school, in the same field, in animal 
behavior. Not sure what department, because I had to get creative, 
but I had met on Ossabaw Island, I read Sometimes A Great Notion  
by Ken Kesey, and also there were three people there who had 
lived in Eugene and Corvallis, and talked about it. While I was 
there, one of my Penn State friends had gotten his Ph.D. at Stanford 
and he had done his internship there, I guess, and ended up getting 
the job at the U of O in Psych, he was writing me letters about  
Eugene. I said yeah, that sounds great. He described it as the hippie 
Mecca of the west, five minutes out of town you can be on a 
deserted logging road. Then he said “You can always get job 
planting trees.” It wasn't long before I went out in someone's 
crummy  and saw what it meant to plant trees. It wasn't for me.  
Raiskin:  Did you go with Full Moon Rising?  
Winterman:  No, a friend on my street did it, and we went for a drive, I saw the 
steep hills and imagined carrying the loads in the rain and the 
mud. It didn't interest me.  
Raiskin:  Had you heard that Eugene drew a lot of lesbians from around the 
country?  
Winterman:  I didn't, really. I didn't, but my first day here I drove into town, 
went right to the U of O, Straub Hall, met my friend that I stopped 
at the Women's Center at the EMU, there was a notice up saying 
“women's community meeting,” and I'd been active in the women's 
community at Penn State and knew when I went to Duke, I knew 
how to go to the women's bookstores and look at the bulletin 
boards. Women's community meeting, I didn't know what that was 
about but I went and what a wild bunch of women they were. They 
had been to a film festival, not sure exactly if it was a women's film 
festival, but some walked out and they had to process this. There 
was quite a discussion about that film festival and what happened, 
people's feelings, and  I thought, Wow, this is great, there were 
quite a few people there. One woman came up to me and she said,  
"I have a room in my house, I'm going to be leaving my house. I 
have a room, it's $46.50." Forty six dollars and fifty cents. It was a 
seven-bedroom house and I went out there, so a month after I was 
here I moved into that house on Hansen Lane up River Road. There 
was a little enclave of dwellings but I was in the big house, Keefer  
House, it was called. Ma Keefer used to run a boarding house in 
that building. Railroad workers, things like that.  
Long:  Did you know anything about Ma Keefer? Do you know anything 
more about her? What time— do you know  when she would have 
had it as a boarding house?  
Winterman:  I don't.  
Raiskin:  But was set up that way, so  it was convenient for people to live 
there, lots of people.  
Winterman:  But we made it work. We didn't have seven  people, we went down 
to about five, and then it started dwindling.  
Raiskin:  Who did you live with?  
Winterman:  I was the last person out,  I had to clean up stuff that was in the 
attics. I don't know why I bothered.  
Who did I live with? You saw the picture of Alex Sullivan. She was 
one of the founders of Mama's Homefried Truckstop, so she was an 
excellent cook. It got me started on my foodie path, she would 
make amazing things and experiment and not be afraid. Other 
people in the house also cooked, so the pies out at Alpha Bit's were  
her pies. A long time ago, she's gone from Eugene. Who else? D.K. 
Taylor, she did theater improv and she was from California. Then 
there were some men, Howard Bernstein, I still see him to this day, 
close friend, was kind of like a brother. Cami Brown, you would 
not know, Lisa Cappazoli.  The women that lived next door in the 
green house were Emily Fox, Shady Grove, I think her name is 
Charlotte, Michelle, can't remember her last name, Dyana, what's 
her last name  [Kahapea]? Something like— or something.  Mint, 
who I had a connection with recently. My first professional job in 
this town was as a museum educator. Jeffrey Gottfried hired me 
when he became the director of the brand new science museum. He 
is now married to Mint. I ran into him, and he was saying, "Did you 
know Marcia Daneb?" I said no, and he says, "Mint?" Oh! Mint!  A 
lot of people went through, Deborah [Darko 00:18:11] lived in the 
yurt, and then across the street was Phyllis, I called  her 
Christopher. Nancy Schute, Kori, who now lives in Portland. Kori, 
her name was Carolyn then— came from Penn State with me. Not 
exactly at the same time, but she came shortly after. She was 
working on her master's in philosophy and had to finish up her 
thesis on Descartes. She came out here and got into woodworking, 
children. We parted; we remained friends.  
Raiskin:  What was your impression of Eugene when you first came here?  
Winterman:  It was what I wanted. I liked communal living, there was such a big 
community of women. I shortly got involved in kung fu, but my 
first impression was that it was extremely progressive. One of my  
first jobs was baking at the Metropol at the Fifth Street Market 
when it was a place for political activists and people to go, not just 
for higher income folks. I remember this old socialist guy, he called 
himself Stupid, he would write, he had a tablet, with comments 
from Stupid or something. He would write these quotes and hand 
them out, but he was an old Wobbly. I wore a Mao  hat in the 
bakery, before they made us wear the white hats. It felt like 
everyone agreed, everyone saw things the way I did. Not 100  
percent, of course, and we were aware of the other populations in 
Eugene. The railroad workers and logging was really big then. You 
couldn't go anywhere without seeing log trucks on the road, now 
when I see one I'm surprised. The beauty of nature was my big 
focus, so every opportunity I could, I was going somewhere. Now 
it takes a lot more to get me in the car to drive an hour and a half or 
something, but I think back then it wasn't, I'd go by myself, spur of 
the moment. Let's go. There was just so much here, so of course it 
fed what I was looking  for in the beauty of the West.  
Raiskin:  What was a typical day like for you when you were working at 
Metropol  and living on Hansen? A typical weekday and weekend.  
Winterman:  Weekdays, well I worked 6:00 in the morning and I was done by 
noon, so I would come home. In the summer we went swimming, 
we laid around in the sun, in people's fields. Typical day, that's a 
long time ago. It wasn't much different than now, now that I'm 
mostly retired I try to remember what I did with my free time. 
During the winter,  I don't remember my typical days in the winter  
time. I worked, I mostly worked. I only did the Metropol job for 
about a year and a half, then I went on to more professional jobs. 
Weekends, there was always something happening in the women's 
community. We went to movies a lot, Cinema 7. Foreign movies 
were big, they had fifty-cent movies here on campus and we went 
to those a lot. Then there were parties, and dances, and 
performances.  
Long:  Where was the movie theater?  
Winterman:  It was in the Atrium, on Olive Street. It's now Center Court, Olive 
and Tenth.  
Long:  Olive and Tenth.  
Winterman:  It was upstairs, it was the first alternative art theater.  
Long:  What was the name again?  
Winterman:  Cinema 7.  
Raiskin:  What was your romantic life like at that time?  
Winterman:  Well, when I started kung fu I was courted by one of the kung fu 
instructors. She had goats, they were living together but they 
weren't— at the time they weren't really a couple. Or so I was told. 
It was such a great— I have to think carefully how to say this. It's 
funny now, my first time spending the night at her house, the other 
one— Should I use names here? My other kung fu teacher comes 
home, throws me out of bed. My car is blocked in the driveway by  
her car,  so I can't go anywhere, and they're having this big fight in 
the house. Two black belts. This was a little out of my normal 
reality, women fighting, and I did squeeze out of the driveway. I 
ran over a few bushes on my way out. That sort of got patched up,  
and I was with her for two years. Basketball player, softball, she 
was always doing something athletic which that's just not my 
thing. We enjoyed nature a lot together, and certainly enjoyed her 
goats, since she did the bulk of the work.  
Raiskin:  What did you think about lesbian identity or, what had you know 
about it growing up, and how did you feel getting involved with a 
woman?  
Winterman:  I knew nothing about it. Had given it very little thought, I was 
interested in boys growing up and I was interested  in high school, 
had a good relationship with a real decent person, a guy that— we 
were very similar. It turns out years later, talking to him, he had led 
a very similar path, only up near Ithaca. One of those other hot 
progressive spots. Adored my dad, I am his daughter. He got me 
interested in science and anthropology;  he took me out west on a 
trip where it was both of our first trips to see the National Parks. I 
had a good relationship with my grandfather, but could see I was a 
feminist and a lot of things made me angry about men.  
 In college, it seemed like a lot of women deferred to men, what 
music we were going to listen to, just how things went, parties 
seemed to be, a lot of loud music, drinking, and drugs. Mostly 
drugs. That was what people— it wasn't— these weren't college  
material kids. One summer, I liked summer term up at Penn State, 
it was beautiful up there and cool, not hot and humid, like  Philly. I 
couldn't get a decent summer job, so I went to school. This place we 
lived, we had an apartment, and I don't remember. My roommate 
sort of made this connection to these other women who came over, 
they were so fun, they were lesbians and they wanted to be my 
friends.  
 I had read, prior to that, I should say, my roommate had— she 
brought the book in,  Lesbian Nation, by Jill Johnson. She was talking 
it up a little bit, and I really wasn't thinking about it. I had an active 
sex life with men, but then here was this young woman who played 
country music, her family was a country music singer. This is also  
not something I listened to growing up. Somebody who was very 
different than I am attracted me, and I was open minded. We went 
camping and we had a good time. It was freaky to me, it was scary, 
it was different than what I was used to or that I had really  thought 
I would do.  
 I kind of grew used to it. My sexuality opened up, it wasn't like, 
this is who I really am. I knew I still liked men, sexually, I was 
attracted to men, and then I started looking at women in a different 
way. It developed and it seemed to be more and more a better fit 
for what was going on in my life, and in the world, I felt supported. 
Not always, but at that age, there was a  lot of camaraderie. We 
marched— there was a lot of stuff going on in women's studies at 
Penn State, in literature mostly. I remember a group of us walked  
over, someone had built a giant towering phallus on the lawn of 
Old Main out of snow. We all went over and—[gestures pushing 
over]  so, my identity was more and more as a strong feminist 
woman.  
Raiskin:  Did you talk to your parents about it?  
Winterman:  I didn't. I did not. They knew about my feminism, I did not talk to 
my parents about it. I just kept saying, women this, women that. 
This is who I went camping with, then we went here. After hearing 
the same name, I never sat down and I just sort of let them figure it 
out, which seems like a very cowardly way to do it, but my dad 
asked if— they thought maybe it was something they had done, 
but they talked to their very progressive aunt in San Francisco and 
she reassured them. She turned them on to PFLAG. I never talked 
to them, they never talked to me really about sex, except in a 
biological— in those terms.  
Raiskin:  Did you identify as a lesbian, or were you still— 
Winterman:  I did. I did, for a long time there weren't many men in my life. I had 
a lot of negative feelings about men for a long time, and I still do, 
and studying primates, I try to look at things from a behavioral 
point of view. This is the little ape we are, this is it. We're not 
bonobos. I didn't think of myself— I did, I think in private I knew I 
was bisexual, but because I was so immersed in the lesbian 
community I didn't give it a lot of thought. If something happened  
somewhere else, it was a private thing. I didn't have too many male 
lovers during  my twenties. A few, just for fun.  
Raiskin:  Could you imagine yourself having, being with women your whole 
life, or having a future?  
Winterman:  I did, at the time. My last relationship, my last lesbian relationship 
was very difficult. It was with a Navajo  woman, and it opened my 
life even more to— This is something I wanted to talk more about 
later, I was burned out after it. I was feeling like maybe I always 
knew that relationship wasn't going to have a future, even though 
we talked about having a child together. It was at an age where I 
was thinking about doing that, having a child. I had just finished 
graduate school, I had just ended this relationship, I wanted a new 
chapter in my life. I actually consciously started seeing men. 
Someone had said to me, "You know, you really pick high risk 
people." I thought about it, and it's true. I would pick someone who 
was so different from me because it was stimulating and 
interesting. Not necessarily a good match for a peaceful 
relationship.  
Raiskin:  Have you thought about having children?  
Winterman:  I did, actually I met a man who had two young children. Eight 
months and five years. Once we knew we were going to stay 
together, his son was seven, and his son was extremely challenging. 
Not just for me, but for others, and I didn't want to start from the 
beginning. I was just counting how many years I could just be with  
my partner, and it worked. We survived it.  It was the hardest thing 
I've ever done, being a stepmom. Having the person that I'm with 
really helped.  
Raiskin:  When you started that relationship, what were your ties like with 
the lesbian community?  
Winterman:  I had lost a lot of my ties. I had been in graduate school, my partner  
left. She moved out of state. Lee Inkman  lived with me for a little 
while, and Helen Shorett. I had a house with an extra room, so I 
had a few roommates. What was the question? I feel like they fell 
away gradually, and then I was told in no uncertain terms that you 
cannot challenge the status quo and be heterosexual.  
Raiskin:  How did that get communicated to you, and by whom?  
Winterman:  In those words, I don't know if— 
Raiskin:  What did you think about that?  
Winterman:  It stayed with me to this day. It was a real slap in the face to 
another woman, who has given a lot to this community and it's 
been hard for me to forgive for that, and for a couple other 
statements by the same person. She's not the spokeswoman for all 
the lesbian community, but I stepped way back and that there 
wasn't room for someone to be bisexual in those days. There wasn't 
room to do anything out of the cultural constraints of this 
community. You didn't wear a dress, you didn't dye your hair, you 
didn't live with males in your household.   
Raiskin:  It's very interesting. How do you think that was policed?  
Winterman:  Cultural norms. The dyke look was very big back then, my friend— 
I had a relationship with someone for a couple years— she was in 
San Francisco so it was kind of a vacation lover. She'd come up 
wearing lipstick because  in San Francisco that's okay, but it wasn't 
okay here. We broke down a lot of messages that we got as kids 
about forcing women into fashion that is ridiculous, or for men. It 
went the other way, or there were new rules. It wasn't about not 
having rules, but I preferred that to exchanging one set of cultural 
rules and norms for another. It was a pretty— policing it— I can't 
say, just how people dressed and—  
Raiskin:  It's natural to want to fit in.  
Winterman:  I wanted to fit in, sure. I was younger than a lot of people.  
Raiskin:  What were the mores around monogamy or couples that were part 
of the community beliefs?  
Winterman:  Dyke drama. I didn't care for that, I was monogamous. I wasn't 
interested in some of the other things people were trying. I just 
wanted a peaceful home life with someone I loved. Sometimes I felt 
threatened, this woman I was with who was Navajo, she was very 
attractive and people were often trying to get to know her. I can't 
speak to the mores, I just know that the kung fu teacher that  I'd 
been in a relationship with for two years left me for a woman who 
lived next door. I would get to see her car parked next door, and 
them shut the curtains when she came over.   
 That was really hard. I was young, I had given a lot of my power 
up, and had my heart broken. That was a real hard month, but 
those are good relationships to learn from.  
Long:  Can you tell us about Amazon Kung Fu?  
Winterman:  I joined because I wanted to learn self-defense, and I liked the 
Chinese style. I continue to do Tai Chi  where I had learned it in my 
twenties, and I hadn't done it for many years, so I started over the 
last couple of years. We were our own clique, I just remember 
seeing all the people at parties, there were some very politically— 
there were some real hard liners who eventually moved to San 
Francisco to do their work. I remember Crow and Raven, do you 
know these names? They were always working on some campaign 
to free somebody. If it wasn't Dennis Banks, it was some other 
women, I just can't remember the names. They wanted to process 
how things went in kung fu, and how teachers were paid. These 
teachers, they wanted the old style: We're your shifu and you bow 
to us. It didn't work that way in that collective, but we put on 
demonstrations for the community. We were doing one at WOW 
Hall, I think it was part of another— it wasn't a talent show, it 
wasn't [inaudible 00:43:30], it was something. Some kind of 
performance.  
Raiskin:  What was the teacher student relationship like if hierarchy was 
being challenged?   
Winterman:  Barbara was involved with at least three of the women in that class. 
She'd punch them real hard when she was pissed off. It was nuts.  
Long:  Can we back up for a second, and tell us, who started Amazon 
Kung Fu, and do you recall the year it was established?  
Winterman:  I don't, let's see. When I came in, in '77, I would say it had already 
been going for one or two years.  
Long:  It was a collective, so how did the collective work?  
Winterman:  That's what they called it, because that was the word of the day. 
They wanted things made, decisions made by consensus.  
Raiskin:  Did you think that was successful?  
Winterman:  I didn't get too wrapped up in it. Mostly, mostly. The teachers had 
to acquiesce some.  
Raiskin:  Who were the teachers?  
Winterman:  Well,  Barbara Bones, and Joyce Towne.  
Raiskin:  Where were they trained?  
Winterman:  In Denver. They met their sifu.  
Raiskin:  Did they bring in their teachers?  
Winterman:  He visited, but no, not really. They were good, what did I know?  
Raiskin:  You were trying to because of self-defense?  
Winterman:  And being with women who were physically strong. I loved the 
movements. I was not an athlete, but I loved the dance of it. I like 
the choreography of the moves, when we did these sets of moves, 
the forms. There was something about the circular Chinese style 
that really appeals to me, and it still does. When I have a Tai Chi 
teacher who was quite advanced, he can demonstrate some other 
styles. As soon as he starts doing it, I'm just really captivated by it. 
It was good exercise, and it was social.  
Raiskin:  Were you friends with people of the Wallflower Dance Collective?  
Winterman:  I trained with Krissy and Laurel Near, and Lyn, I think. They were 
all in Wallflower. I also baked bread at the Metropol with  Laurel 
Near. Yeah, they used the kung fu moves in their dance, that was 
good. I enjoyed them a lot. They had fewer rules.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think that was?  
Winterman:  Just personalities, some people were very rigid. There was a real— 
Raiskin:  When you think back about yourself and your twenties, what's the 
feeling you have about yourself?  
Winterman:  I feel very fortunate to have been in Eugene during the heyday of 
the counterculture and lesbian movements. We were kind of on top 
of the world, or at least  I felt I was a gay woman, which I  identified 
with— we learned to love ourselves, but at the same time, I 
remember a lot of, several, sad breakups in my twenties. Those 
were the years of serial monogamy for me. A couple years, and  
then things fell apart. That was hard, I wanted a relationship that 
was stable. I didn't have a lot of good examples of that, plus we 
were in our twenties. There weren't many rules.  
Raiskin:  Plus, there was no model of marriage.  
Winterman:  Right. I loved that I was able to be free and  explore. I wasn't 
constrained by the conventional life path that you have to do in a 
certain sequence. I love that I got to try things, do some traveling, 
focus on a career. Put on— well, this was in my thirties, I had to put 
on skirts and stockings  when I got my first job at a graduate school.  
Raiskin: What was the job?  
Winterman:  I was hired to run a women's resource center at Mackenzie-
Willamette Hospital in 1986. That was going into Springfield, and 
getting Springfield women and Eugene women to  notice a women's 
center, and use it. I had to go speak to groups throughout the 
community, and be on television and promote it.  
Raiskin: What did the center offer?  
Winterman:  Mostly health promotion workshops, those were the years where 
the hospital wanted to market to women because women were 
making health care decisions for the families. This was before 
managed care. We had lots of self-help  kinds of classes. It was the 
years of Adult Children of Alcoholics and Women Who Love Too 
Much and Women Who Run With Wolves. There were a lot of 
women's, a lot of things swirling around. I had a lot of therapists  
from the community come and speak, we did things for all 
throughout the life span of women. Helped them make health care 
decisions, help break out of— so a lot of the self help stuff I 
packaged in a way and put it on a mauve brochure. We had 
women coming from all over who loved one instructor in 
particular, Gay Wayman who's still in town, she had groupies 
coming to hear her talks because she was so funny and  practical. 
We had support groups, we had a library, we did counseling, we 
had information and referral. I had a list of people to call if they 
needed something.  
Raiskin: Did you work with  the non-profits, like Womenspace, SASS?  
Winterman:  LCC's Women in  Transition, I had to go speak at sororities and 
women's Junior League kind of things. That's where the hose came 
in, but it was okay because I felt like I was doing something 
positive and promoting, furthering the feminist agenda in a 
conservative community. It was okay, I did that for eight years, 
then decided that I'm not using my science background, I really 
wish I could. These nurses here, they have to know all this science 
and they don't have to work forty  hour weeks. That really appealed 
to me, and I  had already turned down after graduate school a 
museum job in Seattle because I couldn't bring myself to leave 
Eugene and move to the big city. And pay a lot of money, have to 
have roommates again. It was really low pay at the Pacific Science 
Center, so I  turned it down and ended up in healthcare. After eight 
years in the hospital environment— well, I got a job at PeaceHealth  
after they discontinued my position doing organizational 
development, doing staff training that was non clinical, like 
cultural diversity and communication skills, things like that, while I 
went to nursing school. I had to humble myself, go back into a 
program where some people had never been to college. I had 
eighteen  years of education behind me, and it was the best thing I 
ever did.  Besides marrying my husband, or having been a lesbian 
for thirteen  years. Those were all good.  
Raiskin:  What about your nursing career?  
Winterman:  That has been really good. I was already forty-two when I got my 
RN, so I didn't want to be a bedside nurse. My back wouldn't take 
it, and it wasn't that interesting to me. I was able to have multiple 
roles in nursing I never would have dreamed of when I went to 
school. I started— I worked as an employee health nurse first, 
hospital employees, so that's a lot of bloodborne pathogen 
exposures, immunizations, injuries. After a year and a half of that, I 
went to a cardiology office, and started a lipid clinic with one of 
them. He wanted a nurse to work with people with difficult to 
lower cholesterol who had heart disease, so I did that.  
 I had heard Sister Monica, who was the CEO of PeaceHealth, was 
retiring and wanted to start a clinic for the working poor. I met up 
with her, I said, let me volunteer to help you with some of this, and 
shortly after, she hired me as the first clinic manager. We built the 
Volunteers in Medicine clinic from scratch. We picked the  
wallpaper and the carpet, we gathered the materials for the folders 
and everything. I loved that.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about Volunteers in Medicine, because 
it's an important organization here.  
Winterman:  Yes. It was focused on people who don't have insurance, or maybe 
have poor insurance and they still can't pay for their medical bills. 
Low income people, not the poorest poor because they have  
coverage, but the people who fall in the cracks. At the time, Oregon 
Health Plan wasn't quite as widespread when we started, it was 
2001, so that's the population we served. The staff, they have a core 
paid staff, I was part of that. We had a nurse practitioner, we had a 
medical director, we had an executive director, business person, 
fundraising. Then the rest were volunteers. It brought the most 
wonderful people out to help, whether it was, "I'm an interior 
designer, let me help you design, pick out things for the clinic," to, 
"I worked in medical records for so many years, let me help 
organize." People came from everywhere, Sister Monica was well 
known and had a lot of contacts, so we got money through that, we 
got lots of support. Then the people who are doing— the providers, 
the physicians, other practitioners, are all volunteer. Lab, all of it. I 
had to wear many hats, because if the lab person didn't show up, I 
was drawing blood. Or if the rooming nurse didn't show up— in a 
volunteer organization, it didn't always flow smoothly. There's 
pharmacy with it, too, so PeaceHealth giving us a huge amount of 
material as well as financial support. It was great.   
Raiskin:  How long did you work there?  
Winterman:  Five years, and the reason I left was that our volunteer coordinator 
wasn't doing her job. There was no movement, there was no— I 
didn't have the authority to let her go. She left shortly after I left, 
but it was time to move on to a non-volunteer organization. I went 
back to PeaceHealth, and I was  there for five years doing 
outpatient. Then I went to Pacific Source health plans, and I was a 
case manager, and now I'm back at PeaceHealth as a case manager.  
Long:  Can you give us some examples of some of the people or families 
who would help with the Volunteers in Medicine program? 
Without naming names. Just examples of family, or— 
Winterman:  Yes. Many are immigrants, and many worked low paying jobs. Fast 
food restaurants, all the places where people don't get insurance. 
People who aren't established with a primary care doctor or may 
have burned their bridges, still needed somewhere to go. White 
Bird, the other safety net clinic, or one of the others at the time, 
served a slightly different population, but there was— you always 
felt there was room for two safety net clinics. The third one, the 
community health center, the federally funded health center.  
Raiskin:  Is that still—  
Winterman:  Yes, multiple clinics now. In my current job, I often have people 
that need these clinics because they won't, or can't, show up for 
their appointments at other doctors’.   
Raiskin: That's what you mean by burning bridges, or— 
Winterman:  Yeah. They get fired from a whole system. I have seen many angles, 
many views of the healthcare system from all around, plus I've 
been a  patient. That's not what this discussion is about.  
Raiskin:  What is your relationship, do you have friendships from the old 
days, still?  
Winterman:  I do. Emily Fox lived next door in the green house, I met her when I 
was twenty-one. We're still very good friends. We can talk about 
the old days, and she just recently married at age seventy-two to a 
Jewish man. My husband also has no problem with our histories, it 
makes total sense. My husband's sister is a lesbian, in San 
Francisco, so he's used to this environment. It's no big deal, 
although he did worry for a while that I might leave him for a 
woman. There was someone in my life, briefly, that gave him 
reason to be concerned, but it didn't happen.  
Raiskin:  Do you see people around town?  
Winterman:  I see Judy Goldstein, I see Judy Boles, I see women at the Temple. 
They weren't old friends, but they were in the community, I don't 
get much acknowledgment from them. LaRosa  I saw the other day, 
she was in my Zumba class— is always warm and friendly. I don't 
see, I'll spot people in a crowd, but I don't hang with them.  
Raiskin:  It would be interesting to talk about those times together, now, but 
it doesn't sound like there's a space for that, really.   
Winterman:  I don't know, for a little while, when I first met my husband he was 
doing co-counseling, so I tried that and I remember doing that with 
a few lesbians in the community. There are a few people that I feel 
are open to me and don't hold a grudge, but for a long time I felt 
like it was not okay to have defected, like I somehow diminished 
the community by doing that. Which wasn't true.  
Raiskin:  In your last twenty  years, say, in your straight community, do you 
feel that there's space for you to talk about your history, or do you 
feel you have to make the space?  
Winterman:  I kind of have to make the space, although I don't hesitate to come 
out about my past, with friends. They don't always know what to 
say. Recently, I did with a new woman friend, she says, "Oh yeah, 
we all experimented." I said I experimented for thirteen  years. I 
don't think it bothers people, the kind of people that I would share 
it with. I don't talk about it at work.  
Raiskin:  The assumption might be that, like at a dinner party with other 
couples, you're a straight couple. Other people who have married 
men and talked about feeling a little erased in that.  
Winterman:  Oh, like my past.  
Raiskin:  I don't know if you feel that way.  
Winterman:  Let's see if I can come up with an example, because something did. 
When I tried to explain to younger women, like who I work with, 
the normal path is often that you find your partner in your  
twenties. When I say, nobody I knew got married, and that was 
true in the counterculture group, too. They don't— I can't explain 
that to them. It just wasn't, it was too conventional. People just 
didn't bother doing that until much later, and then it became this all 
important thing. I understood that, too, people  want stability.  
Raiskin:  You were in a community that was very innovative, and I don't 
know whether it's difficult or easy for you to explain that period of 
your life to younger people.  
Winterman:  No. Yes, it is difficult, it is. I remember telling one person, because 
she had just started a relationship with a woman. She  asked me 
about my life, and I was trying to explain Gertrude's Café, and 
Mother Kali's, and the energy that women had for each other and 
for living life with gusto. No one was wanting to change diapers 
and people didn't even have conventional jobs. I can't explain that 
to someone who's coming from a really straight upbringing. I work 
with a lot of them.  
Raiskin:  I know someone who left here in 1985, went far away, and she said, 
she thought it was like Brigadoon. She couldn't explain what those 
ten years were like for her  here.  
Winterman:  Fortunately, I'm in Eugene, I'm still here and people do remember.  
Raiskin:  There's parts of it still happening.  
Winterman:  Yeah, we're still here. It's interesting to see what's happening now. I 
feel a little ripped off that now it's so inclusive, and fluid. It's too  
bad that I got the door slammed, that's how I feel, and that's just 
too bad.  
Raiskin:  Can you talk a little bit about how you see the current fluidity? 
Where you see it, what you think?  
Winterman:  I will always accept, I feel like I'm always accepting of people 
trying to find who they are. I think there's a whole spectrum, and I 
don't understand their style, necessarily.  
Raiskin:  Who are you talking about?  
Winterman:  Let's think of early twenty-somethings. I just try and remind myself 
that what looks odd to me now, we probably looked pretty odd in 
our day. Didn't think so, but I bet we did. I just try and remember 
where I was, in bucking the status quo. It's not like they're asking 
for my permission, but how do I feel about it? I'm still learning. I'm 
still learning about transgender issues, I'm interested in psychology 
so I wonder what about our culture has changed. I think there's still 
a lot that's not understood.  
Raiskin:  What's attractive to  you about fluidity?  
Winterman:  You don't put people in boxes, with labels. People have different 
needs at different points in their life, and life's just a continuum of 
trial and error. It was a rigid community, at least the part that I was 
involved in. It seemed like there was a lot of— I don't know. I'm 
still working it out.   
Long:  I'm wondering if you can describe some of the gathering places in 
the community, like Gertrude's Café, and Mama's Homefried 
Truckstop. We've heard some people talk about those places, can 
you tell us your memories?  
Winterman:  The Truckstop, or Mama's, we'd call it, or The Truckstop. It was a 
restaurant, it had lots of old chairs and tables, all mismatched, a 
stage. There was music there often, and definitely every Sunday. 
People would come and just drunk gallons of coffee, strong coffee, 
put brown sugar in it. It was a collective, so everyone was equal. 
There was art on the walls, it was a place where people went for 
breakfast.  
Long:  For breakfast?  
Winterman:  They went all— they had lunch and dinner.  
Long:  Where was it located, and who were the people who  started it?  
Winterman:  It was a small group, one of my roommates was a part of that. I 
wasn't in on that, I wish I could tell you that story. I don't 
remember. It was at Fourteenth  and Kincaid, between Kincaid and 
Alder. Close by, I think it's now Pegasus Pizza, or it was. You can 
look at it. I still drive down Hansen Lane to look at my old house. It 
looks terrible.  
Long:  What kind of food did they serve there?  
Winterman: The big home fries and eggs and pancakes and waffles, things like 
that. Organic, it wasn't all vegetarian. I don't think. I don't  
remember if they had hamburgers. Good desserts, healthy food. 
Not truck stop food, and they were good cooks. They really made 
an effort to do some interesting things, lots of good soups and 
hearty bread. Gertrude's, I remember they were in a house. Their 
first place was in a house, then they lost that and for a while they 
were in the basement of the WOW Hall. Then I don't know if they 
folded, it didn't last long. I think there was a revival, and then it 
folded again.  
Long:  It might have turned into Wild Iris.  
Winterman:  Oh, yes. Some women started Wild Iris. Maybe that's the house I'm 
thinking of, one of our old houses here. Where else? The Riviera 
Room. I could describe that to you. Sort of a seedy bar, with a big 
dance floor and mirrors, and several rooms, women bartenders, it 
was open to men and women. We danced, we'd go there after kung 
fu sometimes and dance and  drink beer.  
Raiskin:  Were the men gay, too?  
Winterman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], but a lot of women went there. Then there 
was Perry's, that was another bar on Pearl Street. I think more men 
went there. When things were going downhill with my last 
relationship, I'd find her there. They had some interesting shows 
there.  
Raiskin:  I wanted to ask you about your memories about some of these anti-
gay measures and what your experience around that— those 
times?   
Winterman:  The only one I remember was in the late seventies, or maybe it was 
1980. I don't remember the measure, I remember us being in the 
courthouse. The county courthouse, I think. We had a good 
turnout, and a good outcome, so I can't give you the specifics.  
Raiskin:  We’ll have to figure out what that was.  Do you remember Measure 
9 in '92?  
Winterman:  I do. I wasn't involved in that. In '92, I was trying to place myself in 
the history.  
Raiskin:  Are you thinking about retiring?  
Winterman:  I am almost retired, I work about one, sometimes two days a week 
as a per diem,  and I'm holding on because of the people I work 
with. It gets me out, focused, feels like I can make a difference for 
some people that day. It keeps my brain working hard. Sometimes 
too hard, so when they lay more stuff on us, because they keep 
adding stuff to our job, nothing ever gets taken away, I think, OK, 
this is it. This is the final straw, I'm done, but I don't quit. I go back, 
and I try to do it, and well, all right, I can do some of this. I keep 
thinking about it, but I'm definitely preparing myself and I have 
been looking for volunteer positions, have tried some out to focus 
my need to do some community work.  
Raiskin:  We've asked people, thinking about being in Eugene for such a 
long time, having had an interesting life in terms of sexual identity, 
to think about the younger person was listening to your interview,  
or maybe in fifty years. Is there any advice you'd give to a young 
person from this vantage point?  
Winterman:  I guess just don't yield to cultural pressure to be someone who 
you're not.  If you want to be a lipstick lesbian, then do it. If you 
want to be heterosexual and wear plaid flannel shirts, do it. Just 
don't let other people define you.  
Raiskin:  Good advice. Is there anything that you haven't covered, we 
haven't asked you about that you would like— a story to tell, or 
some piece that we haven't asked about?  
Winterman:  I don't know. Just that it is nice to run into old friends. I ran into 
Nancy Burbank  after many years of not seeing her, and it brought 
back sweet memories. I think we've all been through many 
lifetimes, and I've been out of town when there have been reunions, 
so I've missed every one of them.  
Raiskin:  Who has reunions?  
Winterman:  There were two here, one was I think a showing of your— 
Raiskin:  We brought people together who had been interviewed, yes.  
Winterman:  There was another reunion a couple years ago, and I was out of 
town. I know they had people's names up on a board, and they 
were all drawing lines. Were you there? Who they were lovers 
with. It was— I think one person had the most number of lines. 
Treasure your youth.   
Raiskin:  Maybe there will be more reunions around this project, too. That 
would be fun, to see each other.  
Winterman:  That would be fun.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Winterman:  Thank you.  
Raiskin:  It was really, really nice.  
Winterman:  Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  