 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene lesbian oral history project. The 
recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Joanne Fletcher on September  6, 
2018 taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives and  
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Joanne, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Fletcher:  Absolutely.   
Long:  Okay. Thank you very much. Let's just start with a basic question. 
Can you please tell us when and where you were born and 
something about your early years?  
Fletcher:  Yeah, so my name is Joanne Fletcher. Aileen is my middle name, 
although I never used it, so I wasn't sure how to spell it for the 
longest time. I was actually born Joanne Aileen Berkowitz, but 
when I was in my twenties, I changed my name to kind of change 
the legacy. So I changed it to Joanne Aileen Fletcher.  
 I was born on August 2, 1960. I would say I had a pretty basic 
normal-ish childhood where, you know, I went to school, we did 
things I. I was raised Jewish, went to Hebrew school— things. It 
was a pretty all-American kind of  childhood.  
Raiskin:  Where were you born? 
Fletcher:  I was born in Fullerton, California and I grew up mostly in 
Anaheim, California. I went to school at the Loara  High School and 
I would say that, looking back when I was in fourth grade, I didn't 
recognize  it at the time, but I could see that I was attracted to girls, 
but I had no clue what that meant. There was no like gay-straight 
alliance on campus.  
 I remember being attracted to this girl in fourth grade. Her name 
was Karen. And I just felt oddly protective of her. And I remember 
a teacher, a substitute teacher, making fun of her last name. And I 
wanted to stand up and defend her, but didn't really understand 
much of that. Also, one of my other early memories was I had a  
massive crush on my teacher, Ms. Vivrette. She was tall, she was 
blonde, she was articulate, she was kind, she was smart. And I had 
a crush on her all through the entire year. And the next year she 
came back and she was Mrs. somebody or other, and I was 
mortified, but I didn't know why. Looking back there were clues, 
but I didn't really get it. I knew that I felt different in high school 
because I was not attracted to boys.  
 I didn't want to be any part of that social scene. But that was part of 
what we were supposed to do. But I didn't go to like school dances. 
I was involved in the Girl Scouts and I went to Girl Scout camp 
outs and that delighted me. It was wonderful to be in this 
empowered group of women and girls who could claim who we 
were, not about lesbianism, but just claim our personhood outside 
of that mix of boys and girls, men and women.  
 I would say my actual coming out started, not by myself but by my 
brother. My brother's three years older than I am. His name is Paul. 
And he was out in high school and, he was very in-your-face-out. 
And he decided that what was important was that he came out for 
me. When I was around seventeen, he told a few of our relatives. I 
was not pleased because I saw he was really in your face about his 
coming out. And for me that wasn't how I wanted to do it. And I 
saw the backlash that he suffered and I didn't want any part of that 
and that's not my personality and I didn't want to be that. And if I 
didn't come out that way, I didn't know how to come out.  
Raiskin: How did your parents respond to his coming out?   
Fletcher:  Well, my dad had  died when we were really young. I was four.  So, 
it was my mom and her third husband, I think. My mom was 
appalled, couldn't talk about it, you know, let's never talk about 
this, let's never be real about it. That was also a cue to me that I 
can't come out.  
 But my first event really was— I thought I was being all liberal 
because my brother invited me to this concert for I think it was 6, 
No on 6, the Briggs Initiative  that—yeah—down in California, 
which said, among other things, I think, that no school teachers can 
be gay. And I'm sure they said “homosexual” and that, anybody 
who supports that should also be fired. And I went to this concert 
and there was this women's music and I didn't know what to  make 
of that because  I thought for sure— and they were talking about 
actually buying albums at the record stores— And I thought, that 
can't be possible. It can't be legal. This can't— what is women's 
music? And they can't be selling this stuff. And I remember Sue 
Fink's song "Leaping Lesbians", and that was kind of my 
introduction to women's music, which was an odd introduction.  
 I thought, "Oh, how liberal I am that I went to this concert to 
support my brother." But I kind of knew at the time, still, that  it 
was really  somewhat about me.  
Raiskin:  Who did you go with?  
Fletcher:  I went with my brother. That was really the early part of all of that. 
And I really didn't come out to myself until probably my second  
relationship. My first relationship was at about sixteen  or 
seventeen, and it was hard to make sense of it. But by the second 
relationship I knew what was going on. But, before that, one of the 
early coming out memories of realizing that all of my friends pretty 
much were lesbians, but we didn't talk about it even though some 
of my friends were in relationships with each other in this group 
that we had.  We were all gathered around my friend's house. Her 
name was Maggie. She lived in Costa Mesa. We are all in the living 
room in this circle, just hanging out, talking. And our friends, Nikki 
and Betsy were kind  of late coming, and they came to the door. 
Now this was a group of very closeted lesbians, very Orange 
County, very closeted.  
Raiskin:  High school?  
Fletcher:  Maybe the end of high school. Most of  my friends were in college. 
Betsy comes to the door, she gets introduced by my friend Nikki 
and Betsy looks around and says, "Oh, just so I know who's in 
couples?" Oh, we had no idea what to say because we didn't admit 
it to ourselves. Much less each other, much less— and these  were 
my closest friends. So, it started this thought process. And then I 
started looking for books on lesbianism, trying to understand what 
it was trying to, to grasp what I was going through.  But at that 
time, you know, it was the late ‘70s.  The only books that I saw were 
in the abnormal psych section in between like mental illness and 
sexual deviancy. And I thought, Oh my gosh, that can't be who I 
am. But that's who it says I am.  That was a very confusing time.   
 And then right before I came up to Oregon, I came out to my mom 
and it was a very— I was living in Long Beach, California, in this 
duplex, and I'd asked all my housemates to leave and I actually 
cooked, which I don't do, but I cooked something that I thought 
was intricate, which was soup, because that was big for me. So I 
invited her over. I had this soup cooking and she sat down and I 
was about to get brave and tell her, and she looked at me and she 
said, "Are you gay?"  
 I thought, Wait a minute. That was, that was my thing. I was 
supposed to be able to do this. And I said, "Yes." And I am sure that 
I was like dizzy, you know, I was coming out to my mom and for 
the first time ever in my life, I heard her cuss and she said, "Shit!" 
And that was her response to me coming out. And I would say that 
that was her response forever. And that was pretty painful, but I 
did it. And that was at time that felt like the lesbian culture, the 
lesbian community was developing in the late seventies, early 
eighties, down in Long Beach. And it was evolving. And what I 
knew was it was important to be visible and it was important to 
state my truth. Partly because I believed it and partly because that's 
what all the rhetoric said and that's what all the songs said. That's 
what all the books said.  I thought, okay,  this is important. And it 
was, and it was a horrible, horrible, and I do remember it obviously 
because I still feel emotional about it. But— 
Raiskin: Do you remember anything you were reading at that time?   
Fletcher:  Oh, I read, The Coming Out Stories, Common Lives/Lesbian Lives, Rita 
Mae Brown, books that— and then I read some of those books that, 
yeah, they were important, but they were horrible, Well of 
Loneliness, things that spoke some truth, but they were crushing 
and it always ended up that the lesbian went off and was sad and 
her girlfriend went off and married her boyfriend. And the  other 
early books I read where— Lesbian Woman, Del Martin, Phyllis 
Lyon. Some of these things were just revolutionary and they just— 
they were so affirming that somebody was talking about my life in 
a positive way.  It wasn't just my secret that I had to hold on to. And 
the women's music that was around at the time. I mean, that to me, 
it in some ways it felt like it saved my sanity and it gave me the 
courage to keep going.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember who you were listening to?  
Fletcher:  I could, I don't remember everything now, but at the time I could 
tell you every album, every song, every background singer, every 
musician. But I was listening to Meg and Chris and Holly and 
Margie and listening to like, "I Know You Know" and "You Can 
Know How I Am" and "We Shall Go Forth" and "Changer and the 
Changed" All of those, all of "Fire in the Rain", all that music that 
really spoke about my life and my experience and the good parts of 
it, my loves and, and community and the brightness.  And just that 
spirit, but also had got to acknowledge the fears and, and some of 
the horrible side of it all. "Lesbian Concentrate," the album in 
reaction to the Florida—  
Raiskin:  Anita Bryant.  
Fletcher:  Thank you. Anita Bryant. Yeah, I mean that was phenomenal. In 
some ways I thank Anita Bryant because she really coalesced gays 
and lesbians across the nation and she helped to form what we 
became, in part. And oddly, ironically  I appreciate her for that.  It 
worked.  
 But some of that music, it just spoke about who I was and the face 
of, of having to hide in the face of all of the discrimination. It was 
not just to be able to hear that music and to go to places like 
McCabe's and where I was— McCabe's— To Cal State Long Beach 
which is where I was going to school at the time and to go to 
women's music concerts with, you know, sometimes it was fifty, 
sometimes it was hundreds of lesbians and be able to have that 
common experience. And, and I remember the first concert I went 
to and Holly Near was up on stage and she's so expressive and to, 
to watch how she used her hands to express her life and to use her 
words to reflect my life. It was— it helped my sanity for sure.  
 And I remember, you know, being in college and thinking at the 
time, how sad it is to me that I'm never going to be able to get 
married, that was around seventeen or eighteen, and thinking that 
how unfair that was, but somehow knowing that that was the life I 
was choosing because I couldn't not be me, I couldn't not be 
authentic.   
 And there were a few other coming out pieces that were really 
important to me. I was at— when I actually was up in Eugene, it 
was in the— I'm going to  skip around a little bit, but, in the ‘90s 
and the City of Eugene had a new city ordinance that said you 
could not discriminate among other things relative to sexual 
orientation for housing. And I worked at the Housing Authority at 
the time, and I went to this meeting that was a bunch of rental 
owners in the area and they were discussing it and I was sitting 
right there at the table, there was probably a hundred of these 
people, the rental owners, and there were people up front talking 
about this new city ordinance and saying there's ways around it. 
And they were talking about how to strategize to not have to rent 
to gays and lesbians. And I'm sitting right there and one of the 
things that they said was somebody said, "Well, how can you do 
this?" And they said, "Well, you know, when somebody turns in an 
application, you can just tell." And I thought, "But I'm sitting right 
here. How can you? How?"  
 That was life changing for me in that it was devastating. And I 
remember leaving the room and going off to the bathroom and just 
sobbing because they're talking about me, they're talking about my 
friends, they're talking about members of the community who are 
here contributing. And I remember right then thinking— and I said 
nothing. Which, that was so hard, and I kind of blamed myself, but 
I didn't know what I was supposed to do. There weren't any rules 
at the time working for an organization that said, you can defend 
yourself, you can talk about being gay.   
 I remember sobbing in the bathroom and thinking, "I can't ever lie 
again. I can't ever hold back my truth, and I can't ever lie again." 
And that has been really hard sometimes. It was initially.  
 I worked at Linfield University  in 2000. Very conservative college. 
Really wonderful place, great education, but very, very 
conservative. And they had this thing. Initially when there was a 
new person who came onto the team, a new employee, in the 
admission's department, and I was the assistant director of 
admissions, that they would have like a little welcome.  
 We were in this beautiful old house on campus, and it was well 
decorated, and it had all of that charm of that old architecture. And 
we were sitting in this grand living room and everybody was 
sitting around, and they said, "So, we've interviewed you. You 
already have  the job. We know all about your professional life. Tell 
us about your personal life. We want to know all about your 
personal life. Are you married? Do you have kids? You know what, 
what  do you do?" And so I thought, Oh my gosh, I promised 
myself I would never lie. Here's this group of conservative brand-
new coworkers that I've known for about an hour.  And I took a 
deep breath, and I said, "Well, I currently live in Eugene with my 
partner Linn  of eleven  years, and we have a dog named Calli. And 
we like to do  things like go to the beach and go on adventures and 
have friends over and play music." And it was just silent in the 
room, and it felt like hours had gone by, but really it was probably 
like five seconds, but nobody said a word. And finally somebody  
broke the ice and said, "So, what kind of dog do you have?" I 
thought, I just told you that I have a partner of eleven  years, and  
you want to know about my dog. And I thought, Okay, but at least 
I kept my promise to myself.   
 It was a hard moment, but it was life changing for me. And I have 
kept that promise, you know, really ever since. And I think that 
around coming out and being a lesbian, that mostly what I try to do 
is just normalize it. Just talk about it as an every day, "Oh yeah my 
wi—." Well, using the  word “wife,” that's new, and I'm still looking 
for like the lightning bolts or the people with guns or something. 
But, I try to use the word wife, to normalize it, but I  talked about, 
"Oh, Linn and I—." My wife's name is Ellie Linn Fletcher, but I call 
her “Linn.” And you know, I talk about just what Linn and I have 
done and just try to normalize it because it is. I mean, I look 
forward to the day when, I don't want this to sound wrong, but 
being gay, being a lesbian is just kind of just boring. It's just another 
thing. It's just normal. It's just what is, let's talk about things that, 
Oh my gosh, are revolutionary.  
 And so that's kind of how I feel like coming out is that lifelong 
process. Even today, it feels like every single day I'm still choosing 
and, and it's how and where and when. And is this safe? Does it 
matter if it's safe? And, talking to neighbors and coworkers and 
colleagues and friends and just being able to be there and be 
authentic.  
Raiskin: When did you come to Eugene?   
Fletcher:  I moved to Eugene in '83. I moved up with— my brother was living 
in Eugene. He had been here for— my oldest brother, Dan.  He and 
his girlfriend at the time, Holly, no— I think they got married— his 
wife Holly, were living in Eugene and it was at an economic 
downturn and in the ‘80s, and they couldn't sell their house. And I 
thought, Oregon, that sounds beautiful. I've always wanted to get 
out of southern California. My partner at the time, Lori, and I  said, 
"Let's go up there and buy the house." I had been to Oregon once 
for twenty-four  hours when my brother had gotten married. And I 
thought, "Okay, let's just do this."  
 We moved up together and, Lori and I were together for, I don’t 
know, maybe another six months, maybe a year and then parted 
ways. But it was so— it was odd because I was living in 
Springfield, which at the time was even more conservative than it is 
now. And I had no idea that Eugene was next door. In fact, at the 
same time that I was moving up, one of my best friends, Stephanie, 
was moving up to work for the Girl Scouts and that was in Eugene 
and I was moving to Springfield and she said, "Well, if Eugene is 
near  Springfield at all, how about if I live with you till I find a 
place?"  
 So she moved in and  the community was amazing. I mean, there 
were— it was kind of underground. It's an odd community in that 
lesbians are everywhere, which warmed my heart. And I 
immediately found support groups and Mother Kali's and concerts 
and all sorts of events and potlucks. And just a lot of gatherings  
and it felt really good to be able to be that connected. I got involved 
immediately in the community. I was still closeted in some ways. I 
lived in  a nice but kind of conservative street in Springfield. And I 
got involved in Mother Kali's and helping with the lending library. 
And that was interesting because everything, personal  is political, 
everything was— we had to look at each book in the lending 
library cause we were trying to make some sense of  it and try to 
decide if that book should stay in the library or not. But everything 
was consensus and political and really we tried to be very 
thoughtful about it. It was an interesting challenge.  
Raiskin:  What kind things would not stay in the lending library?  
Fletcher:  I do not remember specifically, but they were books that had 
nothing to do at all with gay or lesbian. Had nothing to do with 
social proactive, positive community. It would be things that 
maybe were historical but from a perspective that wasn't inclusive. 
But those were really hard choices. So, not many things actually left 
the lending library at that time. But we did take a good look at it.  
Long:  What was Izzie Harbaugh  like?  
Fletcher:  Izzie was amazing. You know, she— she kind of had this edge to 
her that I remember, but she was also so welcoming and, and she— 
she would always want to recommend books. I would tell her what 
I liked and she would recommend some of those and then tell me 
what also I should want to read, which was very cool. But she also, 
I mean she knew so much about everything in that store and she  
seemed so proud of that store. And, Mother Kali's was a haven. I 
remember one time, this was my fondest story of Izzy that I had 
had a really hard day, a really hard day. And  there was some 
homophobia that had gone on and it was so challenging. And I 
went in and she said, “How you doing?” And I said, “I had a really 
hard day.” And she said, “Well, how about if you'd come and sit 
down and I'll make you a cup of tea.” I thought this is the thing I 
need. And the tea was really bad, but it didn't matter because it was 
this offering of home and hospitality and nurture that it was one of 
the few places I knew that I could go into Mother Kali's and just be 
surrounded by women-identified materials and music and books 
and posters and that it could just feel like home.  
Raiskin:  Did you find that community in general, wherever you found a 
welcoming to you at when you moved in?  
Fletcher:  It was interesting because, it didn't feel proactively welcoming. It 
felt not like it was hiding, but it felt underground. It felt like there 
were lesbians everywhere, but how to connect, you really had to 
take the initiative. But once I did it was very welcoming. And one 
of the things  I like being raised Jewish is there's a very big Jewish 
lesbian community here and a lot of really amazing women leaders, 
especially back then. So to feel like, to feel like I could be proud of 
being Jewish because growing up Jewish, there was a lot I didn't 
agree with in, in the religion. I loved the tradition and the 
connection in the family, but the religion itself I couldn't connect 
with. So once I got to the place where I could translate from   
Hebrew into English, I knew that I— it wasn't for me. So to  come in 
here, to come up to Eugene and  see all these strong lesbian women 
who were Jewish— it helped heal some of that. That was really a  
wonderful thing as well.  
Raiskin:  Did you know about Baleboostehs,  the Jewish lesbian group?  
Fletcher:  I heard about it. Almost went once, but did not because I was 
pretty shy in a lot of ways. I mean, once I was connected I was 
good, but I was very shy around new groups and new people. But 
there were a lot of concerts. I went to concerts and, there were book 
groups  and work groups, and just, I think that the magic— one of 
the magical things about being in Eugene and being a lesbian was 
that we could go anywhere. My wife now, my partner at the time— 
we could go to the Eugene Celebration and go to the dances. And 
just go dancing at any of the venues and we were welcomed. 
Nobody, nobody harassed us. It was almost like a part of Eugene 
was lesbian. So in that way, we didn't have to be connected to a 
specific group of lesbians that it just was lesbiana everywhere. And 
it was beautiful. And there were lots of places to make friends and 
make connections in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  So you were here for Measure 9 I’m wondering how that felt? 
Long:  You were here for Measure 8? Measure 8 came first. That was '87/ 
'88.  
Fletcher:  Yes. I remember, I thought it was revolutionary that Neil 
Goldschmidt, I think it was, had that executive order saying you 
couldn't discriminate against gays and lesbians  in the workplace.  
Raiskin:  —the governor of Oregon.  
Fletcher:  Yes. And I thought that was revolutionary. And I was a little scared 
because I thought there could be backlash. And I think that's when 
8— was that when 8 came on?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Fletcher:  I was here for 8. I was here for 9, I was here for Son of 9. I was here 
for Springfield 20-08, which was one of the hardest. I was here for 
13 and 36 and all of these— so, I worked in two ways on all of those 
initiatives, all of those ballot measures. One was doing behind the 
scenes stuff because  I want to knock on doors and make phone calls 
that's too hard. And I've always been in human services so I was 
always doing that out-focus stuff and I  didn't want to do more of it. 
I would do like databases and  mailings and things. One year we 
had Halloween costumes that were No  on 9 Halloween costumes 
and we'd march in the Eugene Celebration parade, with the lesbian, 
gay contingency, whatever, in that moment we were trying to stop.  
 But it seemed like for a long time it came along every two years. 
And every time it broke my heart because  I would think— oof, still 
get pretty emotional— because it's so personal. And here are these 
people trying to tell me that I am not a positive influence in my 
community. That I don't count, that I don't matter. Even though I'm  
out there doing all of this positive work in human services for 
nonprofits and for the County, I still had— there were still these 
ballot measures. The marriage equals one man and  one woman. 
And it's just all this hate propaganda. And there were these 
horrible, I don't know, I want to say advertisements, campaign ads 
on TV and it broke my heart every time. And every time I'd have to 
gear up again.  And, I figured that my job, if I couldn't be out there 
in the front lines, that my job was to talk to my colleagues, to talk to 
people who knew me, to talk to my neighbors, that that's where I 
did my political activism, to help them to understand how standing 
across from me as a coworker, as a friend, this is how it affects me.  
This is my life that people are voting about. And it was painful and 
it wasn't always accepted.  
 And to see— I forget, which of them passed and which didn't. I try 
to make it a blur because  it was so painful. And I think one of the 
hardest things for me was that being in human services, I would be 
in service and support lots of different clients, lots of families who I 
knew could be sitting across from me getting ready to vote against 
me. And yet my job was to support  them and be in service to them. 
And there was some really blatant homophobia that I had to deal 
with and some just that was more subtle, but it was palpable, it was 
obviously there. But we lived through each of those measures in 
incredibly painful ways.  
 But we lived through each of them and the OCA, the Oregon 
Citizens Alliance and oh, how horrible that was. And still getting  
up and going to work every day, still getting up and trying to be 
who I am and be authentic and not let it, not let it take over my  life 
even though it was our time and it was our money. And it was our 
soul that we had to give out every single time. It was crazy 
challenging.  
Raiskin:  What was the work that you were doing when you came up and 
then what kind of jobs did you do?  
Fletcher: When I came up to Oregon?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Fletcher:  I first came to Oregon and I worked for Alvord Taylor, supporting 
individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities in their 
home life. And then I moved from that. I also worked in this school 
district for Lane ESD, I worked in a classroom with middle 
schoolers. Yeah, who had intellectual developmental disabilities. 
And then I did employment and training, so helped people. It was 
cutting edge at the time, which sounds silly now, but working  with 
the local business owners to get jobs for individuals with 
intellectual and developmental disabilities. And then I went on 
from there. I left the DD world for a little while and went on to 
work at the Housing Authority for about eight or nine years. I was 
what was called a housing coordinator at the time. Went out and 
helped landlords and people who were on section eight keep  their 
housing and check the housing to make sure it was decent, safe and  
sanitary and that kind of thing. And then I did some family self-
sufficiency work there, too.  
Raiskin:  And how did you end up at Linfield College?  
Fletcher:  I took— I saved up a bunch of money and I took a year off of work 
and I wanted to go into something completely different than I had 
done. And I looked in the paper and there was a job as an 
admission counselor at Linfield College and it said zero to three 
years experience. And I thought, I'm there. I have zero experience. 
This is perfect. And so I interviewed and I got the job. And before  I 
signed the paper, they offered me the assistant director job, which I 
thought was great. And I got— for the first time ever, I got to work 
with people who were not at risk people who were just looking for 
their best option. And it was revolutionary to me. Families who 
were together. People who were just being families coming up and 
checking out the campus and trying to decide what their best 
option is, you know, Linfield or George Fox or Willamette, and it 
was refreshing. But I found that my values of how they treated us 
as employees, didn't match my expectations, and I chose to leave 
there and that's when I went to work for the County and I— 
Raiskin: Did Linfield College  have any domestic partnership or anything 
like that in place?  
Fletcher:  Nah, not that I remember. I don't think so. It was pretty 
conservative and now I don't even remember people really talking 
about gay-lesbian alliances.  It was a very conservative campus.  
They were just trying to get some diversity committees going and I 
was like a head of one of the diversity committees through the 
admissions' office.  But— 
Raiksin: There was no out faculty?  
Fletcher:  There was— I don't remember her being out that I remember going 
“Okay.” But I don't remember people being out at all. But, I was 
there less than a year and we were in the admissions' department, 
which was in a very different circle than the instructors, than the 
professors. I don't, yeah. And then at the Housing Authority, that 
was the first time that I could actually be out mostly and feel kind 
of comfortable about it. And there was this unwritten rule when I 
was working around that time, and it happened to me a few times 
that the elder lesbian that worked at an organization would see that 
a new lesbian had come onto the employment team and would take 
that person out for coffee and say, “Here's who's safe. Here's who's 
homophobic. Don't say this around this person.” You know, just 
trying to say, “Here's the lay of the land. If  you want to take care of 
yourself and you want to be safe, here's how it goes.”  
Raiskin: Did somebody take you out and do it?  
Fletcher:  Oh yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin: Do you remember who that was?  
Fletcher:  Nancy Linchild. Yeah. She took me out to 5th Street before they had 
redone it and made it all fancy. And we were having coffee and she  
was telling me, you know, here's— “Here's what you can say,” 
“Here's who you can say it to.” “Here's not to say it to.” Before that 
I worked at Community Services Consortium and then— I worked 
at Community Services Consortium and it was— I worked in 
Albany and it was incredibly homophobic and I had no idea. And I 
had this little picture of Linn, of my partner and it was probably 
about this big and it was in a frame and I had it  up, I had a 
computer monitor stand at my desk and I had this picture up under 
the computer monitor. And so you would really have to go out of 
your way to see it because I was in Albany and I was a little scared 
and I was told— and other people, you know, I shared the office 
with three people and they talked about their husbands or their 
wives and they had pictures, of their family everywhere. And I was 
told that I had that picture and I was flaunting my sexuality. And it 
was just this little picture of Linn just standing in the living room 
smiling.  
Raiskin:  And who told you that?  
Fletcher:  You know, I do not remember, but I remember hearing it.  
Raiskin:  Was it a superior or?  
Fletcher:  It wasn't I think it was my one of my coworkers that shared that 
space who always talked about her family and her kids and that 
was the center of conversations. But I was flaunting my sexuality. It 
was also the same place for one of my coworkers at a retreat said,  
"You should take all the homosexuals and throw them in a pit." 
And nobody disagreed.  
 And here was the  thing that shocked me the most  that you couldn't 
get away with now. My supervisor's name was Caprice and she 
pulled me aside after I'd been there like six months or so. And she 
said— in this office up in Albany, you walk into this big open lobby 
and then there were these offices off the lobby and there were 
classrooms. And she pulled me into really the lobby and she was 
standing there and she looked at me and she said, "You lied to us in 
the interview. You  didn't tell us you were gay." I know. "And we're 
going to transfer you to Corvallis." And I thought,  I didn't know 
what to say. Who, who comes out in a job interview? And what is 
even relevant about that? But the good news is that I went over to 
Corvallis. It was much more open. My new supervisor, Sarah, took 
me out to coffee and she said,  "Here's what you can say, here’s 
what  you can't say, here's who's open, here's who is not." And she 
was very supportive.  
Raiskin: Were you ever in a position to take a newer colleague out to tell 
them the lay of the land?  
Fletcher:  Not really. No. Because there were actually, and this surprised me, 
in all the jobs, even though it was  human services, very few 
lesbians and I never understood that, and the lesbians that were 
there didn't last very long. But these were people who were already 
way out, and I wasn't going to tell them anything, which was yay  
for them. But then I worked for the county and I'm still there, 
human services.  
Raiskin:  How did you meet your wife?  
Fletcher:  Oh, I'm looking over there because  she sitting right there. I met 
Linn through a friend of ours named RJ Bell. RJ was actually Linn's 
ex and RJ and I went out to dinner and she was telling me, she was 
describing Linn to me and I fell in love with her before I met her. 
Just how she was describing her nurturing and her intelligence and 
her sense of adventure and her kindness and, and how expert she 
was at certain things.  And I just thought, "Oh my gosh, I have to be 
with that woman. I am in love already." And then I met her and I 
was totally enamored.  
 But it was hard because she wasn't really a part of the lesbian 
community. She wasn't really associating with lesbians and I was 
shy about it because I had never had to take the initiative with 
anybody. It was my previous girlfriends and partners were, were 
women who we already kind of knew each other.  We were 
working at camp together, we were doing something together and 
we knew each other and it just kind of evolved. But this was having 
to go and ask her to do something. We decided that we'd go to the 
coast and I was nervous and I didn't know what it meant. And I 
didn't know if it was about being friends or about— I knew for me I 
was totally in love.   
 And it took a while. It took a few getting together and parting of 
the ways. And finally we got to a point— she had— I hope she 
doesn't kill me for saying this, but she had broken up with me a 
few times and the third time she broke up with me, I talked to 
somebody and I said, "What's going on? Because I am so in love 
with her." And she said, "Just tell her you don't agree." I think I 
wrote her a note and I said, "I know you want to break up with me, 
but I don't agree." And that was the last time she ever broke up 
with me. And we are getting ready to celebrate our twenty-nine  
year anniversary this September.  
Raiskin: Were you able to stay connected with your lesbian community 
contacts? Living  in Springfield and— 
Fletcher:  Oh, so we left Springfield when Measure 20-08 came around. That 
was heartbreaking.  
Long:  Which one was it?  
Fletcher:  Measure 20-08 was a Springfield ordinance. I forget all the details. 
Something about you can't have books in the library. You can't 
acknowledge or use any government funding for anything gay or 
lesbian. I'm sure they said homosexual, but I try not to use the H 
word because it's so offensive. And we were living in Springfield.  
 Linn never wanted to live in Springfield because she's a Eugenian 
through and through. But she was living with me in my house in 
Springfield and she had her business there. And I remember that 
we went down to San Francisco. Linn is a Reiki master and  we  
were doing a Reiki class down there, and we were listening to the 
news, and it had passed. Twenty-oh-eight  had passed and I didn't 
know how that was possible. And it was like one of the first in the 
nation, if I remember correctly, at the city level that passed.  
 And shortly after that we moved partly because then, everybody 
was boycotting Springfield, which I could understand, but we were 
in Springfield. You can't boycott lesbians just because  they're in 
Springfield and she had her business there. And so we had a friend 
who was selling her house over on University Street and we bought 
her house and moved to Eugene and it was fine because my house 
was in Springfield, but my life wasn't in Springfield because there 
was nothing social for me really. It wasn't progressive. There was 
not a big gay-lesbian community in Springfield. Everything, my 
work and my life and my friends and my culture and I felt like my 
home was in Eugene  anyways. We moved to Eugene and been 
there ever since.  
Long:  Can you give us a picture of what the lesbian community was like? 
You've talked a little bit about that, but if you could describe some 
of the, like the range of activities or the organizations.  
Fletcher:  Sure. For me, back then there were two, two main hubs. One was 
Mother Kali’s, where there a lot of activities were generating, a lot 
of political work was generated out of. And then there was a 
lesbian support group that happened through the U of O, although 
I don't think there were any U of O students. But I remember 
meeting there and then we shifted over and met at the MCC.   
Raiskin:  The Metropolitan Community Church.  
Fletcher:  Yes, yes. But it started out at, at the university in the gay-lesbian 
union, I don't know what it was called. For me, a lot of the activities 
were— came out of that. And there were so many, like I said, there 
were so many lesbians around and also going to the arena, I think 
that what it's called the arena down the dance place down below 
Perry's. That might've been what it was called. And then there was 
the Riv Room, which I mean there was—there was this one place 
that seemed upbeat and newer and we could gather there and there 
was great music and we could just hang out and dance and drink 
and enjoy each other's company and just feel like we were just 
part— like we could relax. And then the Riv, we went there 
sometimes to play pool, the Riviera Room, I think it was called. It 
was a scary, dingy, really dark. It seemed like people there were 
very depressed and that's how it felt to me. People might've— 
Long:  What years was that?  
Fletcher:  What years, man. It was the mid ‘80's, I guess, somewhere around 
the mid ‘80's. And so we'd go to the Riv Room every once in a 
while to play pool. But it was so depressing. It reminded me of the 
Que Sera Sera  in long beach where I came out and went to the bars. 
But that was kind of dark and depressing and kind of a hole in the 
wall, too. But we'd go out to the other place.  
Raiskin:  In Eugene, what was the other place?  I don't think we've heard 
anybody talk about that other place.   
Fletcher:  Well there was this, there was the Riv  Room and then there was 
this bar, I think there was a restaurant called Perry's. And below 
that I think that the— that the club was called Arena, Club Arena. 
And we used to go down there and go dancing and drinking and 
have fun and hang out. And just groups being able to just be 
ourselves so, that was another big  gathering place. And then there 
were the concerts that happened. Laura Philips and I don't 
remember who used to produce some concerts. So there were times 
that, I don't even remember everybody who came out here to do 
those. And then Dykes to Watch Out For. She was here.  
Raiskin: Alison Bechdel?  
Fletcher:  Yeah. And, God, I don't remember who all, but Kate Clinton came 
out here too, and it was interesting to watch how Kate Clinton was 
received here because it's very political and sometimes she would 
go off into places that people thought were politically incorrect, so 
she got a few boos. But mostly it was nice to be in a tiny group of  
lesbians.  
Long:  Do you remember where she performed?  
Fletcher:  I think it was at the U of O, but I'm not sure. I know it's not called 
the U of O anymore. The UO, is that what it's called? And I 
remember some things at the Hult. There were some concerts I 
think over at Condon School. And I don't remember where else. I 
think I went to something at the Unitarian Church once or twice. 
And then there was a cafe, I forget what the name of it was,  
downtown in Eugene where sometimes acts would come to they 
had a small stage.  
Long:  Was that the Wild Iris?  
Fletcher:  No. 
Long:  Gertrude's ?  
Fletcher:  No, I don't remember, but it was a long time ago. Yeah. Eugene 
really, you know, it's, it's felt like home. It's felt more accepting. It's 
felt in some ways, kind of like this bubble of acceptance. And, and 
so when my wife and I are together and my friends and I are 
together, we feel like we can, you know, we can hold hands, we can 
be out, we can be gay. And it's safe. And even people who might 
say something or sneer or,  or being homophobic, they don't really 
have any clout.  
 But then traveling outside of that, I remember after being in Eugene 
for a long time, going on a road trip by myself and going through 
Utah and, my wife and I, our first rings that we had put on the 
opposite hand that people typically do. And I went to Utah and I 
remember putting my ring on my, on my finger, on my left hand 
because that was more traditional. Maybe people would just think I 
was straight married.  
Raiskin: You want to tell us about your different weddings? Marriages?  
Fletcher:  Yes. Okay. Linn and I had been together about six years and we 
really wanted to have some kind of a union. We wanted to bring  
our communities together because we had very separate groups of 
friends and we wanted to celebrate our relationship. And we knew, 
we knew that we'd never be able to actually get married. We 
thought, let's have a wedding. We called it a “joining” and we had 
it at the Unitarian Church at Fortieth  and Donald, beautiful place, 
beautiful place where you can have a wall of windows and you 
look out and there's all the trees. And we invited friends and 
lifelong friends and local friends from Eugene and, and my 
coworkers because I was working at the Housing Authority and 
they were very accepting and, and it was a beautiful ceremony. 
Joanna Mitchell officiated for us. And we had this big long, drawn 
out everything we'd ever want in a wedding. And we had it there 
and it was wonderful. And it was 1995. 
Raiskin:  What were you wearing?  
Fletcher:  I was wearing these white pants and a white shirt that was kind of 
laced with this very vibrant purple jacket. And this purple heart 
made out of stone. And the wedding earrings that I still have, they 
were little hearts that had this  little diamond-looking thing on the 
end. And I decided that I was not going to wear any shoes cause I 
don't know, picking out shoes. I had these really fun socks. And 
Linn dressed in this white dress. She said that she wanted to wear 
white because she didn't wear white to her wedding when she first 
got married to her husband, John, former husband John. And so we 
kind of matched and yet we looked very different. It  looked a little 
butch-femme. That was not the point. That's just who we were. But  
it was a great event because it brought our communities together 
and it allowed us to celebrate and we could be out and make a 
statement about who we were as a couple. And it was lovely.  
Raiskin:  Did you order a cake?  
Fletcher:  We did from Costco because  we could afford it. We had two sheet 
cakes and I don't remember what they said, but I think one of them 
had a heart on it. And we did all the traditional, you know, feed 
each other cakes and cake. And it was lovely.  
Raiskin: And that was 1985 you said?  
Fletcher:  Nineteen-ninety-five.  
Raiskin: Nineteen-ninety-five. 
Fletcher:  Yeah. And then the second time we got married, we were at home 
on our house in University Street in Eugene and we were watching 
the eleven  o'clock news and Enid and Sally were talking about 
Multnomah County handing out or issuing wedding licenses to 
same sex couples. And we thought that, okay, that can't be possible. 
It's got to be some kind of a prank. It's not going to  last but let's go. 
Because if we don't go tomorrow morning, then it's going to be 
over by the next day. I mean, I had no faith in that lasting any 
longer than a morning. And I didn't even think it was going to be 
real, but we were going to do it because if we could get legally 
married, if we could make that statement, if we could have the 
same right as everybody else to protect each other and to make that  
statement that we're together,  that that would be amazing. I called 
my supervisor at the time who I was out to fortunately and told her 
the truth, told her we were going up to Portland, we're going to get 
married and I'm not going to be at work tomorrow.  
 We like raced in our closets. We figured out what to wear. I don't 
remember what we wore and we went up to Multnomah County 
building and we parked right across the street  and when we got 
there, there were already lines of gay and lesbian couples. They 
were around the block and I mean all around that building and it 
was amazing and we thought, well, you know, we've been together 
for fourteen  years, we’re the old married couple and it was so 
humbling because there were women in front of us who were, who 
had been together for thirty  years, who had lived that life that I had 
heard about a lot but hadn't met a lot of that, that they really had to 
hide or pass or I mean the depth  of their secrecy was appalling and 
humbling. And I was thinking I fourteen  years, I mean, we're going 
to be like the old married couple and we weren't, which was great 
and it was— the weather was kind of icky and it didn't matter.  
 Everybody was in really  good spirits. People were coming along, 
handing out coffee and donuts and all that stuff. And we were 
waiting, I don't know how long we waited. It must've been a 
couple of hours. And we finally  get in and we do the whole get-the-
marriage-license, and then  we come out. And fortunately there 
were people right outside that were officiants that were marrying 
people on the spot. And I thought, if we don't do this now, it might  
not happen. We might not have a chance. So let's do it now. Hedge 
our bets. And there  was somebody right behind us from the 
Register-Guard  and he was looking for Sally and Enid. And I said, "I 
don't know, we haven't seen them here. But we're from Eugene." 
And he said, "Great, can we do an article on you?" And my first 
thought was, no, but Linn who— she was like, "yes, of course you 
can."  
 So, they  took our picture and they had the article and we got to get 
married and as we were leaving—our car was right across the 
street—so all we had to do was just go across the street and get in 
the car and go back home. But I was thinking, we could have a 
reception line and there were still  couples around the building and 
we thought, let's go around the building, have this reception line. 
We took our marriage license and we showed everybody and it 
was so beautiful because there was cheers and clapping and 
congratulations. And it was like the biggest reception line anybody 
could have, but it was like that icing on the cake for us that we got 
to not only have that moment but have our community, many of 
whom we didn't even know, celebrate us.  
 And then we went back home and I knew that we were going to be 
somewhere in the newspaper. And so I got up and I went over to 
the newsstand and I looked in the newsstand and we were on the 
front page above the fold and I freaked out because I thought 
people are going to kill us. People are going to  I don't know, bomb  
our house and burn crosses and egg our house and key our cars 
and really hate on us.  
 And so the next morning I went to work because  I had to go to 
work.  I couldn't not, and people were wonderful and I was so glad 
that I told my supervisor the truth because we were on the front 
page of the Registered-Guard. That was kind of my, like, here's like 
the last step in my coming out. Anybody who didn't know— it's 
2004, now they're going to  know because we're right there. And it 
was beautiful because I would go to the coffee place and the guy 
there said, "You know what, let me this is on the house. You can 
just have this." And people were so gracious. I remember  going to a 
concert at the WOW Hall and these women, young women who we 
didn't even know, came up to us and said, "Oh, we don't know you 
but we have your picture on our refrigerator." And it was just 
lovely.  
 And the hard part of all of it outside of it  eventually being 
annulled— but the hard part of it was that I got home and I called 
my mom. I should have known better, but I call my mom and you 
know, Linn and I had been together for fourteen  years.  And so I 
called her and made that small talk, you know, and she said, "Yeah, 
well, we've been in our house for fourteen  years." I thought, "It's an 
interesting coincidence." They had moved to Nevada at the time. 
They were living in Las Vegas and she said, "We're doing some 
remodeling in the bathroom and we're replacing our floor 
covering." And I thought, "Oh, okay."  And then I told her, I said,  
"Well, I just wanted you to know that Linn and I were up in 
Portland and we got legally married." And the other end of the 
phone was just silent. And after what seemed again like hours, but 
it was probably like five seconds, this is what she said to me: she 
said, "You know, after fourteen  years—" and I thought, she's going 
to say it, she's going to say this is great. She said "—after fourteen  
years, it's about time we replaced our bathroom flooring." I 
thought, Okay, that I gave it one last shot.  I kind of expected it, but 
I was hoping for more, especially when she started with “After 
fourteen  years.” Because that's how long we've been together.  
Raiskin:  Did you send her the article?  
Fletcher:  No, I didn't. No, no. Why? No. Then those were  annulled, and what 
we did, I mean it was— 
Raiskin:  How did it feel when it was annulled?  
Fletcher:  Well, here's the thing. I expected it. I never expected that those 
marriage certificates were legal. I never expected that it was going 
to last. When they were annulled, there was a part of me that was 
devastated, but there was a part of me that anticipated it. It's like, of 
course they're annulled. But Linn, my wife— does that make  her 
my ex-wife? My non-wife? – was devastated because she hadn't 
lived that life of always being barraged by homophobia, by 
knowing that you can never do certain things by being— you 
know, we had just lived two different lives, so she was devastated.   
 We got the check, they sent us back— it felt really insulting. They 
sent us back that $60 check and we donated it to a high school 
LGBT group. But, I expected it to be annulled. I was braced for it, 
so it wasn't like  it devastated me. Not like some of the other things 
that had happened that devastated me. And then in 2013 and then 
leading up to that, when all these states were saying, "Okay, gay 
marriage, that's cool, you can do it. It's going to be legal." And it 
started I think in Iowa, which is ironic to me because it seems like 
such a conservative place. But then, a little states here and there, 
what was it, Massachusetts and just little places here and there, 
started to legalize it and we were waiting, because we didn't want 
to have it like be legal a little bit, but not be totally legal.  
 We waited until the Supreme Court said, "Hey yeah, go ahead and 
do it." Well, it's not how they said it. They said, "Yeah, go ahead 
and do this." And we're like, "Look at the federal level. This is cool. 
Oregon's not 100% there, but they're going to be," and it was, it was 
early September 2013 I remember because our anniversary was 
coming up and we said, you know what? We don't want another 
anniversary. We want to keep September thirtieth. So, we had like 
three weeks I think to organize some wedding and we thought, 
well, let's just have a small group of people and we're going to go 
up to Vancouver, Washington because we know Vancouver, 
everything is all set there. We were looking at California, but they 
had some rules, I  know this wasn't the right thing to talk about, but 
they had some rules about how you got divorced that we were like 
"If it ever comes to that, we don't want to have to go through that."   
 So we went up to Washington, we scouted it out, we came back, we 
organized a group of friends and then it was just so, so fun. We got 
on the train and we took the train from Eugene up to Vancouver 
and we rented this parlor at the hotel that's across from this really 
beautiful park. And we had our ceremony there and it was  in a 
way, it's like, yeah, we've waited for this forever. And at the same 
time, it's like we've been married several times already because we 
had our very first marriage. We like kind of went away together up 
in Hendricks Park and we dressed up in our wedding outfits and 
we married each other before our big thing in ‘95. This was really 
our fourth wedding. And so by then it was kind of like— but I 
wore some of the things that I'd worn at the big wedding in ‘95 and 
almost everybody, I think everybody who  was at this wedding had 
been to the other wedding. And we thought that we should maybe 
have one last wedding where we invite only people who have 
never been to any of our weddings, but we don't want to do that 
again.  
 But it was just this wonderful— and the hotel was so welcoming to 
us and it was— it was just beautiful. And it was a parlor room that 
was a  little bit fancy, a little bit  not so fancy, but it had a balcony 
and looked over the park. And we had music there and we ordered 
in Thai food. And, it was great. I mean, we finally got to do it. We 
took bits and pieces of our other weddings and we included it in 
this one. And many of our friends who are also our age, many of 
them who were there are also lesbians. And one of them I 
remember very clearly, one of the most closeted of us said that she  
never thought in her lifetime that she would ever see that we could 
actually get legally married. And it was so poignant to see 
somebody who was that closeted, know how much it all meant to 
her as well.  
Long: And this was in 2013?  
Fletcher:  Two thousand thirteen, 2013, September.  
Raiskin:  And then all the federal rights in 2015.  
Fletcher:  Yeah, so to know that I could not only make the statement of this is 
the woman who I love, who I want to be with, but I also got to 
legally protect her. And  that was— it felt like a relief but we still we 
had to go around to all of our banks and do a very special—. Before 
we got married,  we had to do this very special— make sure that 
absolutely everything goes to her. You can't just like be  co-owners 
of an account. There's like this certain document. So we had to go 
through and make double sure, triple sure that we were taking care 
of each other when one of us predeceased the other. But that was 
all legal like, but, but in 2013 then we knew that a lot of that extra 
stuff that we had to do, we didn't have to do anymore and to stop 
having to watch our backs in that way was so beautiful with such a 
relief.  
Raiskin: Do you think that the fact that gay and lesbian people can get 
married will change the community at all? Communities?  
Fletcher:  The gay, lesbian community?   
Raiskin: Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Fletcher:  No, I don't think so because I think that we built something from 
scratch. We already created a culture in a community. We already 
created  values and rules and we created who we are. I don't think 
that that is what could change. You know, I think that the only 
thing that might happen is for the younger— for the teens and the 
twenty-somethings who are coming out, maybe things changed for 
them  because they just see this as a normal part of life. Maybe for 
them they can be free to look at other things and to challenge other 
aspects of culture and community and, and be proactive in politics. 
But for those of us who've been around a while, I haven't noticed 
anything that's changed at all.  
Raiskin: What are your future plans?  
Fletcher:  Wow. Retire from the County.  
Long:  When do you plan to do that?  
Fletcher:  Are they going to see this? I'm hoping in a couple of years to be 
gone from the County.  And then to pursue my own training and 
consulting business. And I have some really good— my best friend 
from high school, Nicki we didn't actually go to high school 
together  but, we have always talked about living in the same area 
and she and her wife Susie live down in Long Beach, California. 
And so they're going to move up here. And my brother and his 
husband are going to be moving up here at the end of this year.   
 And so I don't know, our plans haven't really developed that. All I 
know is that what we don't have to do anymore and that will just 
be more free to have adventures. Maybe travel a little bit more, 
really take the time instead of trying to fit stuff in, just take the time 
to enjoy each other and the things in our lives and the things that 
we want to do.  And how to see ways that we could— I don't know 
how much, this might sound bad, but I feel like I've been 
contributing to my community and to the gay, lesbian community 
almost my whole life. And it would be nice to sit back and just take 
some of  that in. I'm hoping that we can find some intentional 
community that's a lesbian community that we could retire into in 
our old age. So that we've got the supports and services that we 
need around us, but that it's a safe and engaging and inclusive and 
understanding community.  
Raiskin:  You're talking about those teens and twenty-somethings.  
Fletcher:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Is there some advice that you would give to a young person 
watching this video or some words of wisdom?  
Fletcher:  Oh, man. You know, I think that the Jewish part of me says, don't 
forget the history.  Know where— this is emotional for me— to 
know what's happened and to know how to protect ourselves and 
prevent those things from happening again. I think politically it's a 
scary time again when the Supreme Court seems to be getting 
loaded with right wing conservative people, when the  
administration just carelessly cuts off groups and discriminates. 
And that it seems like some of the Neo-Nazi homophobic hate has 
a place again.  
 Don't just stand by, don't be quiet. Don't assume that things are 
going to be okay. I don't live in fear of everything. We've worked 
hard. Our generation has worked  hard. The generation before us—
holy cow, what they did. There's no way to ever thank them 
enough for paving that  path. But to not take it for granted, but just 
to enjoy the heck out of it too, to be fearless when you can and to 
celebrate yourself and be authentic and not have to wait. You 
know, if you're finding homophobia, there's plenty of places now 
that are inclusive and embracing and it doesn't just have to be the 
LGBT community, it's everywhere. And, and just to embrace that.  
 I think that combination, and to, I know a lot of people in their 
twenties and thirties are a little apathetic to voting. And even if it  
seems like your vote doesn't count, get out there and vote and, and 
get to know your representatives and make sure that they know 
who you are and what's important to you. And, to not let people go 
without being accountable for the decisions that they're making for 
other people's lives.  
 I think that the other thing is, I mean, one of the luxuries I think 
that I had in my generation was that we were—and maybe every 
culture feels like this—we were creating this culture. We were 
creating what was okay and how  expansive things could be and 
what was acceptable and, and to continue to create that for  
yourselves, but in community, not— I worry a little that with all of 
the screen time and apps and then all of the computer stuff that 
there's this disconnection. And  to find a way to stay in community, 
however that is, even if it's electronically and, and to create and 
keep deciding what works and what's acceptable to you from your 
core and your life and your essence in your genuineness.  
Raiskin:  Is there anything we  didn't touch on that you would like to?  
Fletcher:  Wow.  
Raiskin:  Make sure we do?  
Fletcher:  Let me look  real quick. I don't think so, actually. I think that, you 
know, I was hesitant to come here initially because I didn't know 
how to capture forty  years of being gay, of being a lesbian and 
being a dyke and put it into an hour and what is the most 
important thing. But I feel like I had the opportunity to say what 
was most important and hopefully to at least express through some 
of the stories that I  got to tell and of the emotion that just happened 
what it's been like for me because it's been— my whole life as a 
lesbian, it's been— I mean, it is at the core of who I am. For some 
lesbians, I know it's not, but for me it just is. And I'm very happy 
about that.  
 And, and there's been so many horrible moments of homophobia 
and there has been so much light and love and grace and positivity 
and, and just this outpouring of, of goodness. And I'm so grateful  
for that part of being a lesbian and the lesbian community and 
everything that we have worked for and created.  
 And I would just also like to say that I am quite a fortunate woman 
to be in a relationship with my wife. And when she does things for 
me or gives me cards, or brings me flowers to work, or I tell stories 
to my coworkers, my straight coworkers about her, they say, "Can 
she come and train my husband? Because, I really would like that 
from my relationship, and I don't get that." I've just been quite 
fortunate against the odds to have an amazing partner and to have 
wonderful friends and to have a great community. And for this to 
be able to happen, to preserve our lives and what's important to us 
as individuals and as a community, is phenomenal. I appreciate 
that being done.  
Raiskin: Thank you so much.  
Long: Thank you.  
Fletcher:  Yes, thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  