 
 
Long:  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Special Collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Ellen Rifkin on Thursday, 
September 5, 2018 taking place in the University of Oregon 
Libraries’ recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University  Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. Ellen, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project and 
that you give your permission for the university to preserve and 
make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Rifkin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], I do.   
Long:  Thank you.  Let's just begin with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background?  
Rifkin:  I was born in 1947 in New York City in the Brooklyn Jewish 
Hospital, which my mother insisted that my father drive to in a 
snow storm because she had only recently moved into Connecticut, 
which to her was— it might as well have been Uzbekistan from 
New York. And so she didn't trust the doctors in Danbury. 
Anyway, by the time my sister was born, my sister was born on the 
Danbury Hospital. So that's the answer to— 
Raiskin:  How far a drive is that?  
Rifkin:  Oh, a good hour.  
Long:  Funny.  
Raiskin:  And so you had one sister?  
Rifkin:  Yes, and she's still my sister and we're extremely close. And she 
actually was kind of aware of my whole, very long drawn out, 
coming out process. And she was supportive through all of it. I 
didn't talk to her a lot, I just knew that she was supportive, and that 
mattered.  
Raiskin:  What were your parents like?  
Rifkin:  As people?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Rifkin:  I don't think we want to get— it would take a long time. I cannot 
put it in twenty-five words or less. They both loved me and my 
sister very much. They have flaws.  
Raiskin:  And so what was your early childhood like? What kind of school 
did you go to?  
Rifkin:  Well, I went to a public school all the way through high school. 
There was never any thought that we wouldn't. And I guess  I've 
already made this clear, this is my first answer, being Jewish was a 
big part of my childhood. So there were only a small number of 
Jewish kids in the public schools. Also a very small number of 
African American kids. The town was mostly Irish Catholic, and 
Italian Catholic, and Lebanese, and Syrian Catholic, also was a 
working class town. Although, my father was a dentist, we weren’t 
working class, but it was good to grow up in that situation.  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament as a child?  
Rifkin:  I was really angry a lot. My mother was very critical. We screamed 
at each other a lot. I really had quite a temper but the world 
thought I was the nicest person in the world. And my mother used 
to say that she was happy to absorb all my hate so that other people 
would like me. Okay. Let's move on  [laughs].  
Raiskin:  What was school like for you? Socially, academically?  
Rifkin:  I got good grades. I was kind of a “goody goody.” I was the 
president of this and the editor of that in high school. I had friends,  
I was liked.  I didn't have the best friend in high school. But also, I 
didn't have a sense of— I didn't get excited about learning, and 
ideas, and thinking until I went to college. And in fact there was a 
subculture in my high school of kids who were intellectuals, and I 
didn't get them, I didn't recognize who they were.  
 Even though I totally loved reading and writing but I didn't really 
discover that part of myself— there's a big intellectual part of 
myself. So, when I went to college, it was thrilling. I don't know 
what else is important to say about Danbury. Probably, there's tons 
to say, but this probably isn't. Let's move on.  
Raiskin:  Did you date— 
Rifkin:  But I was straight.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Long:  Did you date in high school?  
Rifkin:  I dated, met boys. Not a lot though. I didn't get a lot of dates, and 
that was okay. Definitely had crushes on boys, and in retrospect, I 
realized that I had crushes on girls, but I didn't recognize them at 
the time that that was there. I  didn't recognize it at all.  I guess I  
could just— I don't know how you want to proceed here. I could 
just plunge into coming out.  
Raiskin:  Sure.   
Rifkin:  Which didn't happen until I was married to a man. And, let's see, I 
don't know. So, do you want the story or?  
Raiskin:  Whatever you want it, however you want to tell it?  
Rifkin:  Let's see. I'm not sure where to start. Okay. I was married, and we 
were very politically active. We were part of the activist 
community in Santa Cruz, California. And we were in a radio 
collective, and we put on a show every week. We might have done 
it twice a week at the community radio station. And anyway, my 
best friend was in the collective, and I realized that I was in love 
with her. And it happened— oh, this is strange, because I've 
written about this experience quite a bit and at length.  
 It's kind of odd to be saying it to some audience of unknown 
people. Let's see. So, I want to tell a short version of it. Anyway, the 
point is, that I was so shocked to realize— this is the point— I was 
so shocked that I went into, have you heard that phrase 
“homosexual panic,”  I think that's what it was. But it was so 
extreme that, I'm not exaggerating, I was alternately manic and 
catatonic for about a week. So, I was in an altered state and—  
Raiskin:  So you recognized that you were in love with—  
Rifkin:  —that I was a lesbian.  
Raiskin: How did you come to recognize that?  
Rifkin:  Oh, because my friend— Sharman, if you ever hear this, “Hi”. But 
Sharman  is not a dyke. I recognized it because we had a very  
conflictual relationship. And I was driving home one day after a 
fight that we had had, and it was a long ride home, because we 
lived out in the country. And I just kept thinking there was 
something strange about that fight. There's something strange 
about what just happened. And I realized I was in love with her, 
and I had to stop at this little market before driving up the hill to go 
home. And I probably stood in front of the cabbage at the market, 
for almost a half hour, not moving. I was stunned to realize that 
this was true, but it fit.  
Raiskin:  Were you frightened?  
Rifkin:  Not consciously, but I think that might've been part of that mania 
and catatonia [laughs]. I wasn't frightened, I just was stunned. I 
wasn't conscious of being frightened, but I was— I don't know 
what the word is. So, the theme that kept coming up, like a 
metaphor, during that week of being— you know, I don't think I 
want to tell this story in this anonymous kind of setting.  
Raiskin: That's  fine.  
Rifkin:  Okay, so I'll jump to the chase. I felt internally compelled to— the 
metaphor was to move, to make a change in my life. Oh, I called 
Sharman  in the middle of it, to tell her. Basically she let me know, 
she is not interested in that, and she  did not share that feeling. I hid 
that information from her, but I still felt like I had to make a major 
change in my life. And I didn't do it. At the end of that week, when 
I finally did go to sleep and woke up, and I looked at myself in the  
mirror. And I knew I wasn't going to have the courage to leave my 
marriage, and to change my life at that point.  
 And I had lesbian friends. Actually, my husband and I, our closest 
friends or neighbors was a lesbian couple. I was involved in the 
women's prison project. I was around lesbians, but I didn't feel the 
ability to change at that point. And I ended up not coming out. 
There's a personal painful stuff here, that I'm sort of realizing, I 
don't  want to tell this whole story.  
Raiskin:  That’s fine.  
Rifkin:  I finally ended up leaving the marriage in 1978; it took that long. 
And it took the painfulness of an abortion and then finally, my 
husband just got so fed up with my constant “Am I going to leave 
or not?” He finally got attracted to somebody else, and that gave 
me an excuse to leave. So I did.  
Raiskin:  So I'm thinking about when you're in high school, and you didn't 
have a clue about that. And then we skipped college there.  
Rifkin:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Where did you go to college?  
Rifkin:  Cornell University.  
Raiskin:  And I suppose there you—  
Rifkin:  It was a fantastic time to be at that place at that time. It was in the 
'60s. It was in the middle of— there  was a huge struggle to establish  
a black studies department on the campus. When I was there, there 
was an occupation of the student union. There were all kinds of 
decisions to make about, where do I want place myself in all of this. 
And it was fantastic. It was during the anti-war years. I was really 
lucky to be there.  
Raiskin:  How did you get out to California?  
Rifkin:  Oh, because the guy I married was in graduate school at Berkeley.  
Raiskin:  And you were living in Santa Cruz?  
Rifkin:  Well, we ended up going to Santa Cruz. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Okay. So now you're on the West coast— 
Rifkin:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  What year is it? Are you—  
Rifkin:  I moved out in 1970 or ‘71. 
Raiskin:  Okay, and then you got divorced in ‘78.  
Rifkin:  Actually, I didn't send away the papers for the divorce until 1980.  
Raiskin:  And so what was your circle like and what did you know about the 
lesbian community in Santa Cruz, perhaps?   
Rifkin:  Okay, so like I said, when I was in graduate school and— 
Raiskin:  In what field?   
Rifkin:  Literature. It was the years of the women's movement. We had a 
support group. This was all before I was coming out. There was a 
women's support group among the graduate students. The 
women's studies program was just getting off its feet  in Santa 
Cruz— I could talk a lot about Santa Cruz, but we're here to talk 
about Eugene. Do you want me to?  
Raiskin:  Well, just context of what you knew about the community and then 
how you got to Eugene? So—  
Rifkin:  Oh, okay. Well, how I got to Eugene. So, I finally came out in ‘83 
and I had been bi during those intervening years. I had had 
relationships with men and with women, after I left my husband, 
but not a lot of relationships. So, I lived on the Navajo Reservation 
for between 19— that's where I went after I— that's what I was 
doing when I put the divorce paper in the mailbox. I was driving 
away from Santa Cruz, after having finished my thesis, and I was 
on my way to Arizona to the reservation there. Because I had 
figured out that I wanted to at least visit there.  
 When I came back to Santa Cruz in ‘82, that's when I met Janice. We 
got together and that was it, that, "Oh yeah, you're a lesbian." That 
was in the summer of ‘83. And it was because of our relationship, 
that I moved to Oregon, to Eugene because she wanted to live 
somewhere with the land, to have some land. And that was like 
unthinkable, economically, at that time in Santa Cruz or lots of 
places in California.   
 We both quit our jobs, and I bought a truck with a canopy. And we 
traveled around the country, and tried to look for a place of where 
should we settle, checking out different lesbian communities. And 
we did that for quite a few months. And then, we ended up 
deciding to come to Eugene.  
Raiskin:  Why Eugene? —the other ones you looked at.  
Rifkin:  Well, it was a compromise. It was neither of our first choice. My 
first choice was the Southwest, but she can't deal with heat.  
Raiskin:  And what community were you interested in in Southwest?  
Rifkin:  I just loved the Southwest, because I had lived down the 
reservation there. I loved the desert. I guess I wanted to have some 
proximity to the Native American cultures there. There was a 
lesbian community in New Mexico. Just the desert makes me 
instantly happy. So—  
Raiskin:  And what was her  first choice?  
Rifkin:  Janice's first choice was this very remote, beautiful place on the 
northern California coast called Elk. And actually I found out later, 
but I didn't realize at the time— So, I didn't want to move there, 
because I felt like I needed a good university library close by, and a 
Jewish community. I think there was a Jewish community, not so 
far away, that I didn't know about. But anyway, I felt it was too 
remote in that sense, although I love remote.   
Raiskin:  So you weren't choosing for a lesbian community, you were 
choosing geographically where you wanted to live?  
Rifkin:  Well, we were choosing among places that we knew had lesbian 
communities. Oh, absolutely. Yeah. And we knew Eugene had a 
lesbian community, and we knew that it was near the mountains, 
and the ocean. And we loved camping and backpacking. And I 
knew that there was a Jewish synagogue whose rabbi was 
supportive of gay and lesbian rights, and he also was supportive of 
Palestinian-Israeli reconciliation, which was hugely important to 
me. Those were draws. So we picked Eugene. But anyway, so when 
we were sitting here at the beginning of this interview, and you 
started talking about— you’ll  ask like, "How did I come to 
Eugene?" And it was making me realize, it took a lot of courage for 
me to come out.  
 And I remember during those years, walking down the street with 
Janice in Santa Cruz— she'd been out forever. She was always a 
dyke but it was new for me. And I remember being conscious 
walking down the street, holding hands, that it took some courage 
to do that. It wasn't hard to do, I knew that's what I wanted to do. I 
was happy.  
 But there was a piece of my brain that sort of knew this feels good. 
And part of it is because it takes a little bit of courage to do this. So 
I was remembering that in the context of, that we moved together 
up to Oregon. Actually, I'm having a lot of personal thoughts now, 
that I don't really want to say out loud, but they're good. This is  
very affirming for me. Okay. We're not together anymore, but  we're 
very close friends.  
Raiskin:  Without getting into details, can you explain why it's affirming to 
think about this history right now?  
Rifkin:  Yeah, because by the time we moved here, I was already, how old 
was I? I was born in ‘47— I was over forty. I was well over forty. 
And I had a community in Santa Cruz. I got very involved in 
Jewish anti occupation politics after I came back from the 
reservation. I had a community there. We had close friends. I didn't 
realize what it meant to move to a totally  new place at that time of 
my life. And it took a long time to feel a part of the community, 
really, a very long time. And then after Janice and I split up, I  
sometimes wondered to myself, Should I have moved here? Was 
that the right decision?   
Raiskin:  When you say was— 
Rifkin:  Sitting here now telling the story, and realizing that I have good 
feelings about the move, who we were at the time of the move, 
where my life is now. It's good to realize that.  
Raiskin:  You say it's hard to start in a new  community. What was your 
impression of the lesbian communities in Eugene when you came? 
And what year was that when you came?  
Rifkin:  We moved here in 1989.   
Raiskin:  Okay. So what was your impression of the lesbian communities in 
Eugene?  
Rifkin:  Well, to tell you the truth, I wasn't really— what  was my 
impression? I don't know how to answer that.  
Raiskin:  You said it was a little hard to— you said when you came it was 
hard to— 
Rifkin:  That was over time. There wasn't an initial immediate impression, 
one way or the other. But over time, I just realized how long it was 
taking to— I don't have any trouble making friends. I made friends. 
But that's different from the community. I felt in some ways people 
were more coupled up here than where I come from.  
 And  what else? I became part of the Baleboostehs, the Jewish 
lesbians group, and that was wonderful. Oh, because Janice and I 
actually broke up for a year, and then we got back together, before 
we later on broke up. But our happiest years were during that 
second half of our relationship. But anyway, during that, I can't 
remember when I got involved with Baleboostehs, but they were—  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about what Baleboostehs  means, and 
what the group was like?  
Rifkin:  I guess I'm assuming other  people have talked about it.  
Raiskin:  A little bit, but your story’s different.   
Rifkin:  Oh, okay. Yeah. Well, that's important. Actually, I'm sure other 
people have talked about it. The word Baleboostehs  refers to— I 
don’t know— something’s  going on about the context of the 
interview and an anonymous audience. Let's see. The point of the 
Baleboostehs  for me was, it was a great community. And we got 
together once a month on the Jewish Rosh Chodesh, the New 
Moon, which is a traditional thing that Jewish women have done 
over centuries.  
 And we had so much fun, and there was so much warmth. And I'm 
sure people have spoken about the leadership of Sally and Enid in 
that group. It was a place where you could come and find a home 
as a Jewish lesbian. And it also was in the period before all these 
Jewish lesbians ended up flocking to TBI.  
Raiskin:  TBI is Temple Beth Israel— 
Rifkin:  Temple Beth Israel, right. And so at that point, people weren't 
interested in going to services and praying to God. But we were 
interested in affirming and growing our Jewish identity, and our 
connection with each other. And we would usually spend the first 
part of the gathering— so we honored the— there's a Jewish 
calendar, and then there's an astrology calendar. We talked about 
what was going on and— were you ever in Baleboostehs?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Rifkin:  Okay. So we talked about what was going on in the Jewish 
calendar, what holiday might be coming up or what the season  
was, what that meant emotionally. And then we did  the same thing 
and for astrology. And then we went around and everybody said 
something about our personal lives related to whatever that theme 
was. And then we would make up a ritual, right on the spot, that 
would tie together all the different themes that we had been talking 
about, that would in some way nurture each of us individually, and 
build our bond with each other. And it was such a fantastic 
combination of lightheartedness and seriousness.  
 It was wonderful. And I had been, and still am very involved with 
Yiddishkeit and the history of Yiddish-speaking Jewish 
communities. And also, I identified as a secular Jew. And it was 
nice to have a rich affirming context for Jewish identity that didn't 
have to do with the synagogue and with a male God. I will say that 
even then, the TBI, the temple here, was already using a prayer 
book that didn't say “He,” but still, it's “God.” Well, I don't want to 
tell Sally's story, but it's part of everyone's story, and probably 
people have told it.  
 After Sally's mother died, she wanted to say Kaddish for her mom. 
So she started going to services, and she found a very welcoming 
setting there. And because of who Sally is in the community, other 
Jewish dykes thought, "Well, maybe I'll check it out  too." So now 
it's like a thriving center for Jewish lesbians in our community, 
which is great. Ultimately, we didn't have a need for Baleboostehs. 
And also, a lot of the leadership, and labor, and time that went into 
Baleboostehs, which came from Sally and Enid. Other people could  
have picked up the ball, and done the work that they had been 
doing. But that's what's the wave of how things went. So that's— 
Raiskin:  What other lesbian institutions in Eugene were important to you?  
Rifkin:  Well, ultimately, much later, Mother Kali’s  became important to 
me— 
Raiskin:  The bookstore?  
Rifkin:  Actually, it was important to me always as somebody who reads a 
lot, and cares about ideas and movements. Yeah, it was very 
important. I hung out there a lot, and I got to be friends socially 
with Izzie  and with her partner, Lorraine.  
Raiskin:  Can you say who Izzie was?  
Rifkin:  Izzie Harbaugh was the person who was the manager of the store. I 
don't know, I wasn't here during the years when the store was first 
founded. I know that there's decades of lesbian history that  all 
came  before I got here. I'm not really sure how long Izzie  had been 
the manager.  
Raiskin:  Where was Mother Kali’s  Bookstore when you came? What was its 
location?  
Rifkin:  When we got here, it still was over on Franklin, but it wasn't in one 
of its original places. And I think Izzie  made the decision to move 
to the university district pretty soon after I had arrived. I was going  
to say something, but when you asked me that question about 
institutions that I was involved with— 
Raiskin:  Or that were important to you?  
Rifkin:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Things that you did?  
Rifkin:  Yeah, okay. I don't— Let me think. I can't think of it.  
Raiskin:  So the bookstore was really important to you. Baleboostehs  was 
really important to you.  
Rifkin:  I wish I could remember what year that was, because I'm thinking 
about other things that I was involved in.  
Raiskin:  Where were you working at this time?  
Rifkin:  I had a whole series of different positions or jobs after we moved 
here, and I don't remember where I was during the years that I was 
on the board of Mother Kali’s. I probably was, let's see— it was 
before Janice and I split up. And it was before Rochelle  lived with 
me. I was probably teaching at LCC.  
Raiskin:  Lane Community College.  
Rifkin:  Yeah. I was either teaching at LCC or working as a counselor. I 
can't remember when I made that transition in the middle of this—  
Raiskin:  I care less about the exact dates as to what you were doing. What 
were your interests? What was your  community? So you taught at 
Lane and you taught at—  
Rifkin:  Oh, we're moving away from the institutions question now.  
Long:  Well, I did want to ask, what was the purpose of the Mother Kali’s  
board. What did you do?  
Rifkin:  Oh, okay. Well before Izzie— I just remembered being in the 
hospital room with Izzie when she died. And—  
Long:  You can talk about that, too.  
Rifkin:  Her partner, Lorraine, was there, and Janice and I were there. I 
think there was one other person there.  
Raiskin:  She died in Mother Kali’s, though,  correct?  
Rifkin:  Yes, because Izzie— Lorraine figured out that we could smuggle 
her out of the hospital so that she could die— so that she could be 
at Mother Kali’s.  
Raiskin:  How did you get her out of the hospital?  
Rifkin:  Because it was right across the street.  
Raiskin:  Right. And how did you get her out of the hospital— 
Rifkin:  I have a terrible memory.  
Raiskin:  Okay.   
Rifkin:  Are you going to interview Lorraine? I forget how. But I think we 
like rolled her out on the bed. Lorraine must have engaged a nurse 
to do this with us. I'm pretty sure that's what happened. But until 
that point, the board of Mother Kali’s  didn't really have to function. 
The board was Izzie  [Lorraine] and Joyce Thomas, who was in the 
Eugene community. She wasn't a lesbian, but she was a huge 
supporter of the store, and of Izzie  and Lorraine, they were the 
board. But after Izzie  died, I immediately felt like, Oh, I want to join 
the board. I want to help. I want to help make sure the bookstore 
keeps going.  Because I knew they needed another person on the 
board— 
Raiskin:  What was the— 
Rifkin:  —I hadn't until that point the lesbian— except for being super 
active during the times of the hate campaigns—  
Raiskin:  Measure 9?  
Rifkin:  There were several, there were three, at least. I was very involved 
in fighting those measures. But except for that, the institutions of 
the lesbian community weren't really my focus in life. My 
friendships were mostly with lesbians, not entirely. And I hung out 
at the store  a lot. But as far as being an activist of any kind, that 
wasn't mostly where I put my energies, except for all those hate 
campaigns.  
Raiskin:  Can you say why Mother Kali’s  bookstore was so important to you 
that you wanted to commit yourself to helping it  thrive?   
Rifkin:  I think because I'm a reader and a writer. And I was always writing 
a lot about politics, and women's stuff as well as Jewish stuff— 
Raiskin:  And so what— 
Rifkin:  —social movements, social change. Izzie  had a good inventory. I 
guess that's important to say. She had a good— 
Long:  What was the character of the inventory?  
Rifkin:  You could find trashy, juicy lesbian novels, and you could find 
intellectual treatises by lesbian thinkers about every issue that 
matters. Fiction, all kinds of fiction, poetry. It was an excellent 
store— 
Long:  Spirituality?  
Rifkin:  —besides being a community place. Yes, there was lots of 
spirituality, but the kind of spirituality isn't really my thing. But I 
knew actually, and I knew this from talking to the subsequent 
manager, that those books had a lot to do with keeping the store 
afloat financially,  as well as self-help  type of books.  
Long:  It attracted a broader customer base?  
Rifkin:  Yes. I'm pretty “woo-woo.” I'm very “woo-woo.” I'm very “woo-
woo,” but I don't read books about it. Let's just put it that way. I 
don't know why I'm laughing. Anyway, I did want  to say for this 
interview that  it was very painful when the store folded, and it was 
painful for everyone. And the lesbian community, by and large,  
saw there was a conflict. You know what, I wrote this down. Is that 
okay?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Rifkin:  Because this was one of my motivations for coming here and I 
thought maybe it could come out more organically, but it doesn't 
seem to be, right now. I wanted to put my experience with the store 
on the record for our history as a community. The story was 
important to so many people as a community hub, not only as a 
place to read books. So, it had both of those really important 
functions. There was a new manager after Izzie  died, and then a 
staff of younger people, who worked  with the manager. It ensued 
that there were disagreements about how to run the store, and also 
about who has authority to make decisions about how to run the 
store.  
 And there ended up being disagreements between the new 
manager and Lorraine, who had been Izzie's spouse, and had been 
on the board of the store, and had worked in all kinds of ways right 
along with Izzie  to keep the store alive during all those years. 
Lorraine was— what  did I say? Lorraine totally believed that she 
was preserving Izzie's legacy, but she couldn't trust other people to 
care about the store  as much as she did.  
Raiskin:  What did she see as Izzie's legacy that needed to be maintained?   
Rifkin:  Well, keeping the store alive. This is important. This is an economic 
context where independent bookstores all over the country were 
going into extinction.  
Raiskin:  And women's bookstores, too.  
Rifkin:  Yes, absolutely. Absolutely, women's bookstores. And so Tova,  
who was the new manager— the store was doing well. Tova was 
keeping it going. And she had a staff of younger women who were 
devoted to the  store, and devoted to Tova. She mentored them 
and— she was an excellent supervisor, and she had an eye for what 
they needed to do financially, to keep the store going. But this 
conflict developed between Tova and Lorraine. Lorraine couldn't 
really trust somebody else.  
 There's something called “Founder's Syndrome,” which I 
discovered later that— what happened, apparently it wasn't all that 
unusual, that someone who is the founder of an institution, like a 
nonprofit or an activist group also that  if they— When the time 
comes for them to let go of the authority, it's very hard for them to 
do it. And so it ends up causing difficulties. Lorraine didn't 
necessarily have to let go of her authority, but she and Tova saw 
things differently. And besides the structure of this founder's 
syndrome going on, there were aspects of Lorraine's personality 
that— the staff and the manager felt disrespected. Not just as 
distrusted but disrespected.   
 Of course, that made them disrespect Lorraine. It got very ugly and 
painful. And what I was observing as— I was also talking to 
Lorraine, lots, for quite a long period of time. We were both board 
members. And I was observing that Lorraine could not recognize 
and value the level of skill and caring that the new manager and 
the staff were bringing to the store. She couldn't see it. All she 
could see was that they wanted to do things differently than what 
she thought was best. And we never found a way to work through 
all that, in a way that was mutually respectful or healing.  
 And Lorraine was the person who had the power, so people lost 
their jobs. And ultimately, I'm sure she and the people who 
supported her have their narrative. And I considered looking 
back— there were like 100s of pages of emails and documents  that 
happened during this conflict and disagreement. And because I 
have a bad memory, I thought I should look. But I did not want to 
look at those. But what I remember is this horrible loss of the store 
because the store did eventually fold. And we lost the store. And I 
do feel that if Lorraine had been able to see that these people who 
are keeping the store going, they can be trusted. It's okay.  
Long:  What year was that, that the store folded?  
Rifkin:  I don't remember.  
Raiskin:  Can you identify different visions for what the store should be, 
what books would be carried? Was there any kind of— that you  
could see a difference in, not just personality but in vision of what 
the store would do?  
Rifkin:  I couldn't say that. I think that would have to do with— It was a 
control issue. It ended up being a control issue.  
Raiskin:  What has the absence of Mother Kali’s  bookstore meant to you? 
What's that loss for you over the years?  
Rifkin:  I was just looking at these notes and I realized that one reason that I 
wanted to come to this interview was that Tova, the manager, was 
vilified by people in the community at the time. And the 
community largely felt loyalty to Lorraine because she had been 
Izzie's spouse, because she had contributed so much to the 
community over many years. Tova was newer to Eugene, much 
newer. And so the people didn't want to— oh, and then it turned 
into a labor issue, and people didn't want to support because— 
turned into a labor issue because things reached such a heat, that at 
one point, the manager and I think, three out of the four workers 
walked out because they couldn't come to agreement with Lorraine 
about how to run things.  
 And the only reason the fourth person didn't walk out also was 
because she was a single mom raising a kid. She couldn't really risk 
it to the same degree. Even given that, the women's community 
here still felt that Lorraine was being unfairly treated by the people 
at the store. And I think,  because of people's loyalty to Lorraine, the 
community itself was unable to see how precarious the existence of  
the store was. They couldn't see our larger need. And so it was 
really painful to me, extremely painful to the people at the store 
that they lost their connection to the store. What did you ask me 
when I—  
Raiskin:  What is the loss of that store meant to you? What is the gap in your 
life?  
Rifkin:  It was a long time ago. By now, I'm used to it. Now, I use the public 
library, I use the university library. I can usually, eventually, find 
what I want, but it doesn't really matter so much what it meant for 
me personally. But it's us because it was a place of books, and 
ideas, and where social change was implicit in its very existence. 
Izzie  had been out forever and she herself was such an individual, 
so unique. She was like an original and she appreciated ideas as 
well as fun. She told you what she thought if she didn't agree. But 
she knew how to make connections with people.  
 That was harder for Lorraine. I don't want to trash this— I don't 
want this to be trashing Lorraine. Although, at the time I was 
really, really, really angry at her and I remained angry for a long 
time. But anyway, so the store was all of that, and it was a 
community place. People would get— we've had people like Joy 
Harjo spoke at the public library recently.  
 But nowadays, you have to go to the university, to hear the kind of 
people who spoke regularly at Mother Kali’s. And so they were 
speaking in a context that wasn't academic and that situated all of  
us in— this is our grass roots community, this is who we are. And 
we're trying to think through feminism, and liberation, and 
people— Just the difference between grassroots and academic. I'm 
not saying this very— 
Raiskin:  Well. You've— 
Rifkin:  Very eloquently.  
Raiskin:  —you've lived both. You've taught at college—  
Rifkin:  Oh, me personally? Yeah.  
Raiskin:  You have. You've lived both. And so you recognize the value of 
both and  the tension between the two. That was a place that had 
both.  
Rifkin:  Yes, that's right. And also being on the board, I got to know Tova 
well, and I got to know the younger women who were working at 
the store. I wasn't friends with them beforehand. I wasn't even a 
close friend of Tova's before that.  I'm realizing that now.  I saw what 
they were doing as a board member and it was fantastic. They were 
so smart and they were so devoted to the store, and Lorraine could 
not see that. Oh, okay. And we lost the store. We lost a fantastic 
institution. Maybe, who knows, maybe it would have been unable 
to weather the financial challenges.  
Raiskin:  A lot of the lesbian institutions in town that were collectively run 
are gone, a lot of them closed. And—  
Rifkin:  I don't think Lorraine would say that Mother Kali’s  was collectively 
run. That was part of the— 
Raiskin:  Okay. All right. But, in any case, many of the institutions aren't 
here anymore. And because part of that was a historic moment. It 
was at the time when people were engaged politically in these 
businesses. Things have changed and I'm wondering how you feel 
about the change and how people are thinking about feminism or 
change, and how it is to live in Eugene? Or you've been here a long 
time now— 
Rifkin:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  —what would you say about how things have changed while 
you've lived here?  
Rifkin:  I think I live in my own little bubble. It doesn't feel like a bubble. It 
feels like a, ongoing earthquake. But that's an exaggeration. Well, 
let's see. I mentioned the shift among Jewish lesbians. I mentioned 
the shift to TBI away from our own independent  circles, which I 
think is good in a lot of ways, and it's also a loss. For me personally, 
that's something I'm personally very conscious of.  
Raiskin:  We've thought a lot when people are talking about— as lesbians 
became more accepted in community, society,  that there's been 
more assimilation, therefore the loss of some of the very vibrant 
lesbian community  organizations. And I see what you're saying 
about Baleboostehs, people are moving to Temple Beth Israel.  
There's an assimilationist and more conservative institutions have 
changed also—  
Rifkin:  Right. It might not be entirely accurate or sufficiently respectful to 
say that  that's assimilationist because TBI also changed. It's not 
only the Jewish lesbians assimilated into an existing mainstream 
culture.  
Raiskin:  Exactly.  
Rifkin:  But nonetheless, that was starting as soon as— in Santa Cruz, I had 
a close friend who— she actually wasn't a close friend, I was closer 
with her partner, but she actually was tearful one day. I was 
visiting them and I was in the kitchen with this woman who was 
deaf and I think she had identified as lesbian her whole life.  
 And we were starting to be more and more out. And she saw it 
coming that probably gay marriage might be accepted. And I 
remember she was mourning that day when we were still 
struggling as a community, but she was seeing that we would have 
some degree of safety and acceptance. And I remember her telling 
me, "We're going to lose our culture."  
 She said, "We're going to lose our rich, juicy culture."  I feel  like that 
is true to a large degree. And it's also true that a lot of the richness 
and juiciness of that culture came from, we were needing to survive 
and we were under attack. And so our lives depended on each 
other and more clearly and more intensely.   
Raiskin:  The conflict was all the more painful?  
Rifkin:  Oh, at the bookstore?  
Raiskin:  Everywhere.  
Rifkin:  Yes. That's right. I think maybe it's part of the reason why people 
don't seem to miss a women's bookstore that much anymore.  
Raiskin:  Because you  can find the books easily on Amazon.  
Rifkin:  Yeah, that's right. It's like about assimilation. Exactly. Yes. Thank 
you for making that important connection.  
Raiskin:  Come closer a little more.  
Rifkin:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  Other changes that you've noticed in over the time that you've 
lived here?  
Rifkin:  You're asking me questions about how I observe Eugene and— 
Raiskin:  Or your life here.  
Rifkin:  Oh, my life. Yeah. Well, I don't know. Yes, of course, there's many 
changes.  I'm older, my body creaks when I get out of bed, but I 
know that's not what you're—  
Raiskin:  No, it is what I'm asking. People are— it’s interesting to think about 
what it means to age as a lesbian.  
Rifkin:  Yeah, that's true.   
Raiskin:  Do you have thoughts about that?  
Rifkin:  I don't have important thoughts about that.  
Raiskin:  Are you retired?  
Rifkin:  Yes, I am retired now.  
Raiskin:  And what is that like for you?  
Rifkin:  I don't think it's that related to lesbian history. I'm getting to write 
more, and I am getting to do more activism. Anyway, but it's— 
Raiskin:  What we didn't touch on I don't know— 
Rifkin:  Well, I'm a single lesbian. I've been single for a long time, 
sometimes it doesn't matter at all. I don't think that would be 
affected either, one  way or another, if I was in Eugene. It's just 
awkward. There's so much to say. I'm so conscious of all these 
memories coming up like I'm remembering going on a three-boat 
canoe trip with six lesbians— no, one of them wasn't a lesbian.  
 We went all the way up to the Northwest Territories. And I 
remember in my own life, I used to go backpacking even when I 
was still married. But then I remembered starting to go 
backpacking with women and what that felt like and to realize, 
"Yeah, we can do this." We take it  all for granted now. But at the 
time it was like, "Wow, we're out here in the mountains, and we 
can totally take care of ourselves." All of that.   
Raiskin:  We didn't touch on, I don't know if you want to talk about, about 
parenting as a single lesbian.  
Rifkin:  Oh, yeah. That's interesting. So, I became a foster parent. After 
Janice and I split up, one thing that I had wanted to do, that I 
couldn't do when we were together because she didn't want to do 
it, was to foster  parent. So I did that. When I was filling out the 
forms— they  ask you, "Well, who do you want? What kind of a kid 
do you think would be a good match for you?" And so I'm filling 
them all out and I had a vision of a five or six year old kid, and 
maybe a girl, maybe her sibling. But at the end of the application, I 
wrote as an afterthought because I knew about how LGBT kids, 
what happens to them often in the foster system.  
 I wrote as an afterthought that I would consider a teenager who 
identified as gay or lesbian. I don't think we were  using the word 
queer so much then. And so of course they matched me with a 
lesbian, but did I think she's still going to be a teenager. No, I didn't 
think about that part of it. Rochelle  came to live with me. And 
actually, that's probably what I think is the best part of my life. The 
best that I've given from being alive is from being her mom. I feel 
wonderful about that and we have a close relationship, not without 
conflict, but we do pretty well dealing with the conflict— 
Raiskin:  Did you— 
Rifkin:  And she identified as a lesbian already. Oh, this is a good story. 
How much time do we have?   
Raiskin:  You can keep going.  
Rifkin:  Okay. Shortly after she came to live with me, pretty soon after, one 
of the people who worked at the store, one of the young women 
that worked at the store, she was also a grad student at the [U of O. 
And she was seeing a woman at that time, who was in the creative 
writing program at the U of O. They were giving a reading at 
Mother Kali’s. It might not have been at Mother Kali’s  because it 
was through the creative writing program at the U of O. I think it 
was the Tsunami. So there were several lesbians who— So Rochelle 
came  with me. My friend was Leslie Frye, who was an amazing, 
wonderful person. And she  was one of the people who had been on 
the staff, a really brilliant, dedicated person.  
Raiskin:  Now a professor?  
Rifkin:  Yeah, and an activist. These are people who were not valued. 
Anyway, so we were going to hear Leslie's girlfriend. She was only 
dating her then. So here's the story. Almost every woman in the 
department who read that night, had like a super short haircut. So 
Rochelle and I are driving home and so she had beautiful, thick 
hair below her shoulders. And she says, "I want to get my hair cut 
off like that." Like a buzz cut. And telling the story now, I'm sort of 
appalled at myself. But I didn't want her to do it. She had this 
gorgeous hair and we argued about it for a couple of weeks.  
 She knew  that she wanted to do that.  I held her back. Finally she 
said, "Ellen, it's only hair, it'll grow back." I felt shamed, and I said,  
"Okay, you're right." I'm telling about Rochelle now in this public— 
I think she would think it was  okay. Well, I'm not  giving her last 
name. As soon as she cut off her hair, she flowered.  
 The first thing she wanted to do was go to Fred Meyer and buy all 
this product and tools. And she started spending hours in front of 
the mirror, and it was fascinating. And she just felt good, she felt 
great. And it was really something to observe. Anyway,  that's an 
interesting story.  
Raiskin:  And so you have a relationship with her now that she's grown up 
and— 
Rifkin:  Yeah, we do. We kept our relationship. She asked me, about a year 
or two ago, if she could actually call me mom. And yeah, it's 
definitely—  
Long:  And how old is she now?  
Rifkin:  Thirty. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  The foster system didn't have a problem with placing a child with a 
lesbian?  
Rifkin:  No, they didn't. It could have been partially because I was a 
counselor by then. And Rochelle did have a lot of special needs, 
emotionally.  And I think they thought, Oh, this woman’s  a 
counselor. She'll know what to do.  That wasn't true. But that 
might've made a difference. I don't know. We've talked about  
transgender stuff a little bit, too. But she's pretty  comfortable in her 
lesbian identity.  
Raiskin:  Do you feel that as a younger person, she's kept you up to date 
with another generation of queer identified people?  
Rifkin:  Yeah, I do.  
Raiskin:  I mean she's thirty, she's not twenty,  but—  
Rifkin:  Right. I do. Well, yeah. Also, the other day my sister told me that 
her grandson, who's about three or four, was at his preschool, and 
they were talking about seeds, and they were having a lesson about 
growing things and plants. And the teacher was saying how these 
little seeds are going to grow up into being larger plants. And one 
of the other kids said, "Oh, is it going to be a boy or a girl?" And my 
sister's grandson piped up and said, "Oh." And the teacher 
answered, "Well, it's not like that.  We don't really know." And so 
Xavi  said, "Oh, well when you don't know or you're not sure, then 
you say ‘they.’" So things are changing.  
Raiskin:  What do you see as what you want to do in your future?  
Rifkin:  I think I am not so interested in talking about that. Because, I guess, 
I'm confused about with the oral history. You see, my vision is that 
it's about our community and— 
Raiskin:  A lot of people are thinking about what it means to be a lesbian, 
older. So whether everyone wants to get a couple of floors in the 
Eugene Hotel together, whether they want to live in community,  
whether people want to live alone in the country. What you want 
to do after retirement—  
Rifkin:  Well, I do think about that. In the immediate future, I'm more 
thinking about sharing my home with people,  who are 
undocumented or thinking about how to contribute to the asylum 
network here, but in the longer term, yeah. I have a close friend 
that we have fantasized about getting some couple of floors 
together and a building somewhere, but it hasn't moved forward in 
any real way. So I'm not thinking about that.  
Raiskin:  Is there a piece of your history or the history of living in Eugene 
that we haven't touched on that you want to— 
Rifkin:  Yeah, I guess I want to talk about the No on 9  campaign.  
Raiskin:  Okay, please.  
Rifkin:  Because I was teaching in Cottage Grove at the time, which is a 
rural community and it has a timber economy, which had been 
gutted. And the people, my students, I was teaching in the GED 
program. I remember that I think I met you during that period  of 
time. Lane had a contract with the Welfare Department to provide 
GED classes for people who are receiving public assistance.  
 I was teaching in the GED program to people who hadn't finished 
high school, mostly were single parents, and whose families had 
very— either they had lost their livelihood or they were sketchy 
because of the timber economy. And they tended to blame this on  
the environmentalists, rather than on the fact that the timber 
companies had actually logged away almost  all of the woods by 
now, anyhow.  
 So they were conservative in that way of viewing the world. When 
the Measure 9 was in the news, people were talking about it. I 
would hear homophobic remarks. I hadn't come out in that class 
until then. And I felt like, I need to come out because I had a great 
rapport that— we had a blast. We had so much fun together.  
 It was a wonderful job. It was a great place to teach and it was 
really rewarding, and it was fun. There was a good  relationship. I 
realized I needed to come out and I did. I planned how I would do 
it and nobody really said anything. There wasn't any, "Oh, we're so 
glad you told us that." And there also wasn't, "Oh God, why did 
you tell—" I couldn't really tell where it would go.  
 But one student in the class immediately came to me the next day 
after everybody left and came out and talked about how relieved 
and happy she was that I had come out and that we could have a 
connection. We became friends, so that that mattered to her. But 
another student told the people at the Welfare Department in 
Cottage Grove, this was maybe a week or so later, that I had come 
on to her.  
 And I don't really know exactly what she said, and I don't 
remember now how I found this out. I think one of the other 
students told me, or maybe someone from the Welfare Department  
called me. And luckily they— someone  said to her, "We don't 
believe that Ellen Rifkin would do that."  
Raiskin:  What do you think the motivation was?  
Rifkin:  I don't think we weren't getting along. I think she had her own stuff 
going on in her life that was hard. And I think she stopped coming 
to the class.  
Raiskin:  So you were never able to ask her, "Why did you say that?"  
Rifkin:  Yeah. I think she stopped coming to the class. So it could  have been 
that it was really upsetting to her to learn that this person was a 
lesbian. And that was part of how she was processing it. I don't 
know. You would think I would have asked myself that question at 
the time, but I don't remember what the answer is, but I do 
remember— were  you here then?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Rifkin:  The letters to the editor, the ugliness of the names they were calling 
us. It seems like we're past that, but it's like racism. We're past— 
that people will say that so publicly, but people are still losing their 
lives.  
Raiskin:  So that was an important moment for you to come out as a teacher 
and educator because of Measure 9. A lot of people came out 
because of Measure 9 and many people have said that Measure 9 
was the best thing that happened to the community in people  
claiming their space, and defeating the measure, and educating a 
lot of straight people, creating awareness.  
Rifkin:  Yeah. That makes sense. And really anything else you would want 
to know about? There's all this silence now—  
Raiskin:  Well, I would say if there’s  anything else that you wanted to make 
sure we touched on?  
Rifkin:  Let's see. Well, I don't know, have you gotten a lot of stories about 
Izzie?  
Raiskin:  Not a lot.  
Rifkin:  But some?  
Raiskin:  Few. 
Rifkin:  Did people talk about Dirty Wing?  
Raiskin:  No.  
Rifkin:  Oh, so Izzie  raised chickens. One time we were over there visiting 
her and Lorraine— not only among the chickens themselves, but in 
conversation Izzie  would often mention Dirty  Wing. It was her 
favorite chicken. And she had a great story about it, which I can't 
remember, unfortunately. But I remember that and I remember 
meeting her chickens.  
Raiskin:  Well, what was significant or different about Dirty Wing?   
Rifkin:  Well, Izzie  recognized that Dirty  Wing had an outstanding 
personality, I think Judy would— Lorraine, probably I'm sure, 
knows  the story better  than I do. I don't want to make something 
up. But I think Dirty  Wing was feisty and stubborn, and wouldn't 
let you— I'm remembering Izzie's memorial service right now.  
Raiskin:  Where was it?  
Rifkin:  I think Lorraine found the venue.  
Raiskin:  Was it at the Wheeler Pavilion?  
Rifkin:  Possibly. It was a very large space and it was a circular space, so it 
could have been there. And we brought in little trees to put all 
around the building. I'm going to probably go home and think of a 
lot of things that I wish I had said but— 
Raiskin:  Everybody.  
Rifkin:  Yeah. That's it.  
Raiskin:  All right. I really want to thank you—  
Long:  Yeah, thank you.  
Raiskin:  It was nice to hear your perspective.  
Rifkin:  You're welcome.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  