 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Myeba Mindlin on August 21, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Myeba, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Mindlin:  I agree. I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much! Well, let's just begin with a basic question. 
Can you please tell us where and when you were born, where you 
grew up, and something about your early background?  
Mindlin:  I was born in Columbia, South Carolina, in 1946. My parents were 
both in the Army, I believe, and they moved to Los Angeles. We all 
moved to Los Angeles. I have a brother two years older— when I 
was a babe. And so I grew up in Los Angeles. And my family 
moved to Oklahoma in 1963. I won't go into that story too much, 
but I went to school in Oklahoma and Vermont. And then through 
my father's— who worked for the Department of Psychiatry at the 
University of Oklahoma— through his boss, actually, I ended up in 
the Haight-Ashbury in 1966.  
 I got connected with the Digger Free City family in the Haight at 
that time, and a whole lot of people that I knew were looking for 
land in the country. And we eventually found a piece in Northern 
California, Siskiyou County, between Yreka and Eureka, and we all 
moved there in '69, maybe? And I kind of went along because that's 
where my friends were going.  
Raiskin:  Can I back up for a minute just to clarify?  
Mindlin:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  So going back to Haight-Ashbury was— how did you end up going 
back to Haight-Ashbury?   
Mindlin:  My father's boss hired a bunch of young people to live in the 
Haight-Ashbury and give him information.  
Raiskin:  Interesting. And this was through the Department of Psychiatry?  
Mindlin:  He was actually my father's boss, whose name is Louis Jolyon 
West, known as Jolly; was at a think tank at Stanford at the time, so 
he was out on the West Coast, and he set up this somewhat fly-by-
night scene in the Haight-Ashbury that I became a part of.  
Long:  So was this a psychology experiment?  
Mindlin:  We had very little in the way of specifics other than to be in the  
community, and Jolly would come and meet with us every so often, 
and gather whatever information was of import to him.  
Raiskin: What was he interested in?  
Mindlin:  You know, I don't really remember. I never could figure out Jolly's 
stake in it, and was contacted by a researcher quite a few years later 
who said that there are no records of that project, and people who 
are at the think tank at Stanford are supposed to be completing 
existing research, not starting new research. So it cast a strange 
light on—  
Raiskin:  And did they provide housing for you there?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, we had an apartment.  
Raiskin:  Oh, and how many of you were there?   
Mindlin:  There were— my brother and I were there and there were like three 
or four other people, and I— there was a free  university called 
Happening House in the Haight at that time, and it was sponsored 
by a professor at San Francisco State. And it was looking at ways of 
bringing people together around educational stuff in the 
community, and I met a bunch of people there, and started teaching 
sewing. And there was a Gestetner copier, which was a very good 
quality copier, in the basement of Happening House; and folks 
were printing the Free City News, which was a broad sheet that was 
distributed free in the Haight.  
Raiskin: And what year was this?  
Mindlin:  Sixty-seven?  Sixty-eight? I turned twenty-one in San Francisco in 
'68. Sixty-seven. And so, through this morphing group of people, a 
bunch of us left San Francisco and a bunch of us went to Black Bear 
and a bunch of us went to the Lost Coast, which is south of 
Eureka/Arcada, and did community there.  
Raiskin:  And what did that look like for you, the community?  
Long:  Yeah, what does community mean?  
Mindlin:  Well, at the time, we were very into free, and Black Bear was 
founded on the watchword free land for free people, and that's the 
title of the second Black Bear book. And so, there were forty  adults 
and fifteen  children living in the mountains in Northern California, 
and we— we were creating a new world, and raising our children 
communally, and that's how I came to be Myeba, because the kids  
all lived in the kids' house, and the parents rotated in. And I was 
twenty-four  when my daughter was about two and didn't want to 
be called “Mother,” and my given name is Eva Bess, and I was 
called that most of my life.  
 And Milagra couldn't pronounce the V in Eva and was being 
possessive, calling me "My Eba," and adults rarely get it and two-
year-olds always do. They say "not Myeba, your Eba."  
Long:  How did the community support itself? Did you go out to work?  
Mindlin:  That was a difficult sticking point and contributed to the eventual 
shifting of many, many things. I put up the down payment. The 
payments were small; it wasn't considered a very desirable piece of 
land, because it was so remote.  
Raiskin: Did you build the structures on the land?  
Mindlin:  We built a lot of structures. There were some existing structures. 
Black Bear was one of the largest producing gold mines in 
Northern California, and it was run by John Daggett, who was the 
Lieutenant Governor of California in the early part of the 1900s. So 
there was a main house that had been a very nice structure when 
the Daggetts— when it was their home. And there was a large barn 
and a shop, and a few other smaller cabins, and then we built a lot 
of cabins, and we— somebody had a connection for plywood that 
was used to ship motorcycles, and it was very thin plywood that 
was kind of bendable.   
 And we had a design for a dome where you sort of pieced all these 
pieces of plywood together and bent them around. And we had the 
materials and they were easy to put up, and they were hard to 
insulate and all of that, but we put up quite a few of those.  
Raiskin:  Did you have electricity?  
Mindlin:  No. Not at that time.  
Raiskin:  What did you do for heat?  
Mindlin:  Wood. Wood heat. Wood stoves. Yeah, when we got propane 
lanterns in the main house, that was way upscale!  
Raiskin:  Was there a well?  
Mindlin:  There was a cistern coming down behind the main— water coming 
down the draw behind the main house, and that went into a 
cistern, and that fed that. I mean, we did amazing work. We dug 
miles of ditches to irrigate, and we leveled beds to irrigate by a 
flood system, where you would open a gate at some point and send 
the water into a series of beds, and then reroute it and send it into 
the next series of beds.  
Raiskin:  How did people know how to do these things?  
Mindlin:  Oh, we read books and figured it out. Yeah, nobody knew much of 
anything when we started out.  
Long:  Was there an established philosophical idea that you followed to 
live communally?   
Mindlin:  Yeah. I mean, I wouldn't say established, but we— I mean, we were 
pretty— the folks who found the land— a couple who found the 
land, he was a longshoreman and had a lot of Communist 
background and had some pretty good ideas about that. And a lot 
of other people came from various left-leaning collective setting, 
work settings, and wanted to see how it would be on the ground.  
 And one of the earliest factional disputes came between the gate 
and the main house. There was a cabin up at the  gate which was 
just under a mile up the road. And the folks up there— there were 
folks who felt we needed to establish a working base to support 
ourselves. And then, there were those of us who wanted to stay at 
the ranch and see what we could figure out and how we could 
manage things.  
 And the folks who wanted to have a sound financial base actually 
came up here and were among the first Hoedads; the Thumb Crew 
was started by the Hamilton brothers, who were old Black Bears 
who came up here.  
 And then, at some point, Black Bear— a lot of people left to 
pursue— so, early '80s, a lot of people started leaving to pursue 
various kinds of professional careers, and some of us— but before 
that, we started a tree planting crew out of Black Bear, which was 
called Ent Forestry— and not an acronym, just Ent. And that was 
actually how I got up here, because I planted trees with Ent, and 
then I was a marketable commodity, a trained female tree planter, 
was how I got hired on the women's crew.   
Raiskin:  How many years were  you a Black Bear?  
Mindlin:  Most of the '70s. My daughter was born there in 1970. So in that 
time period, there were— women were becoming interested in 
feminism and lesbianism, and a couple of women who were at the 
ranch had left and joined this band of traveling women, who were 
roaming the West Coast looking for land, and came through the 
ranch a couple of times, and there were many disputes over 
children and who was going to live where with who.  
 And I became connected with the women— with the Mendocino 
Women's community, which is where Country Women  came out of, 
and so all those women— Sherry  Thomas and all those women 
who were that community— they did women's gatherings in a 
place in Mendo, and some of us from the ranch went down and— 
yeah.  
 I started a long, slow process of coming out in that time.  
Long:  May I just interrupt briefly to ask, were you in a heterosexual 
relationship then, the father of your daughter? Or, how did that 
come about?  
Mindlin:  My daughter's father was someone that I had been lovers with in 
San Francisco before we went to the ranch. And when we were at 
the ranch, I decided to have a child because I wanted to change my 
life. And I chose Marteen because he didn't have any other 
children. And I had been lovers with many men there, and could 
have had my choice of fathers, I think! But I didn't want the  
complication of the many other children who were attached to 
various of these men.  
 And Marteen and I were not— we didn't live together at the ranch, 
or we had our separate spaces. And we co-parented fairly well for a 
while, and then, Marteen  went to the Bay Area for some R and R 
and never came back, and that was how we entered into long-
distance co-parenting. And that was probably when Milagra was 
about three or somewhere in there.   
Raiskin:  Was that a difficult transition for you, for him to leave?  
Mindlin:  Not really, because he had not— we didn't do that much co-
parenting then, and I kind of had to— like, I would get Milagra all 
gathered up and take her to him, and say, "Here, you keep her for a  
while." And he would walk up to the road to the gate cabin where 
my cousin lived, who adored Milagra, and Zoe would take care of 
Milagra while Marteen  visited up there. So it wasn't like we had a 
working relationship, so it wasn't really that impactful on my day-
to-day.   
 And then, what happens there in this remote community, and still 
does, is that school only goes through the eighth grade. Well, there 
is one  school, and it's a long ways from where Black Bear was; and 
so, when kids got to be school age, people would move to the river 
community, and there were mining claims at the time where you 
could live pretty okay and pretty cheap.   
 So there was a mining cabin at the foot of Black Bear Creek, and we 
turned it into a kids house when the kids got to be— there were a 
bunch of kids around Milagra's age who were all going into 
kindergarten at the same time. And we— we did a communal kids 
house at Indian Creek, which was what this place was called at the 
foot of Black Bear Creek.  
 And I didn't want to live on the river. It was a strung-out along a 
river community, pretty het, and not— it just wasn't what I wanted 
to do. I wanted to either be at the ranch, or not be in that area. And 
I went to Cabbage Lane in 1975, because I became lovers with a 
woman that I met through a women's gathering in Mendocino. 
And I lived at Cabbage Lane not very long, but maybe six months 
or so.  
Raiskin:  Was this your first woman lover?  
Mindlin:  No, my first woman lover was actually at the ranch. And we 
became lovers and then bounced apart, which I now attribute to 
internalized homophobia; I didn't particularly get it at the time.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that a little bit, how that worked for you?  
Mindlin:  It was very sweet being lovers with Gaba, who was my first lover, 
and then it was intimidating, and I didn't know how to be, or how 
to be any different than the way— the form that Black Bear was.  
Raiskin:  Was it a pretty heterosexist environment?   
Mindlin:  It was— yeah. I mean, you know, it went without saying. It was 
just the assumption. I mean, there were a few gay men around who 
were— I mean, they were a part of the family, but they didn't have 
lovers at the ranch. And Gaba  and I came together a few times, and 
at some point, I realized that— or I felt like I wanted to— that there 
was more to it than just this, and I wanted to see what lesbian 
community was, and had sort of gotten the idea that there is lesbian  
community from these bands of traveling women who came 
through Black Bear at times. So I went to Cabbage Lane in '75.  
Raiskin:  And where was Cabbage Lane?  
Mindlin:  I'm sorry. Cabbage Lane is outside of Wolf Creek, Oregon. So it's 
part of— it was— and OWL Farm  outside of Days Creek, Oregon 
didn't exist at the time. It had not yet been— and Cabbage Lane 
was— the women lived down in the narrow little canyon, and the 
gay men lived up on the ridge where the sun was. And I didn't 
really know how that piece of property came to be in the form that 
it was. There were two older lesbians who lived in a separate house 
at the foot of the driveway that led up to Cabbage Lane, and one of 
their sons, I believe, was one of the gay men up on the ridge, Lilac 
Ridge.  
Long:  Who  were some of the women who lived at Cabbage Lane?  
Mindlin:  At that time, I lived there with LaRosa, and Susannah Melewell, 
and Pelican, and Clary  Sage, and— I don't remember who else at 
that time. Well, Susan Onaclea  passed through at that time. And I  
found it very confusing. I didn't even know what heterosexual 
privilege was, and yet, I had a lot of it and I was valued for it, 
because I knew my way around a truck; I could run a chainsaw; I 
wasn't intimidated of trying to cut a tree down, even though I 
messed it up and we had to go find one of the boys from one of the 
other places to come rescue us.  
Raiskin: Why do you see that as heterosexual privilege?  
Mindlin:  Well, that's what I was told it was; that I had the privilege of having 
lived successfully in a heterosexual setting where I could acquire 
these skills, which other women might not be able to acquire if they 
were just—  
Raiskin:  With other women?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Interesting.  
Mindlin:  But it was news to me. I was completely— I didn't get it at all. And 
it was lesbian separatist times, and that made so little sense to me. I 
was just floored by it, and saw many women with boy children 
suffer from it, and many boy children suffer from it  as well. It made 
no sense to me, but I had no analysis. I had no— I was not studied 
in feminism. It just seemed strange to me, and like a flawed politic; 
like, how are you going to raise decent men if you don't do it 
yourself, and if women don't do it and show them how to be 
feminist men?   
 And then— then my father had a serious health incident, and my 
mother tracked me down by getting a message to the store in Wolf 
Creek, which somehow or other got to me and I left immediately to 
go to Los Angeles where my father had been diagnosed with 
cancer. And I was  in Los Angeles for quite a long time; like a month 
or so, which was a really long time for me. And I had a sweet 
relationship down there, this woman I met through my sister, who 
was, I guess, coming out around the same time.  
 And after that, I didn't want  to go back to Cabbage Lane because it 
was too confusing, so I went back to Black Bear.  
Raiskin:  And you still have Milagra with you?  
Mindlin:  No, Milagra was not with me in all this time. I think she was in the 
kids’ house still.  
 And so, I went back to  the ranch for a while, and Gaba  was 
pregnant with her first child, and we were intimate and close 
during her pregnancy. And Corinna was born in September of '76, 
and I stuck around for a while, but felt that I needed to be gone 
from there. And Milagra was  entering elementary, and Marteen  
was in a living setting in Berkeley that worked, and he wanted her, 
and she went to live with him; and I came up here in the fall of '77 
and joined the women's tree planting crew.  
Raiskin:  What did you know of Eugene before you came here?   
Mindlin:  Nothing. Well, I had been through town when Milags was— I don't 
know— a year or two old, so '71 or so. And let's see— the Shelton 
McMurphey house— so Hoedads  was above the— you know, in 
Growers Market Building, that— and the Shelton McMurphey 
house was a tree planter crash pad at the time. And so I came up 
here with friends from Black Bear who were tree planters, and we 
were around Eugene just a little bit, and we went to a land place 
out the Siuslaw that didn't last very long— out Mapleton area.  So I 
knew a little bit of the feel of the place, and I knew about Hoedads. 
So I came to join the women's crew, and— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe Hoedads? 
Mindlin:  Hoedad Co-op was a tree planting co-op. We were one of the 
biggest employers in town at that time. There were a dozen crews, 
each of which had twelve  to fifteen  to twenty  workers, and we bid 
forest service and BLM contracts to re-plant clear cuts. It was a 
cooperatively run business, and representatives from each crew 
were the bidding committee, and we would evaluate contracts and 
decide what to bid and which crews would be appropriate for 
which contracts.  
 And then we went off traveling. Most of the Hoedad crews were— 
there was only one other communal crew, and that was Red Star, 
the Commie crew. And all of the other crews were— people had 
their own beautiful trailer rigs, camper kind of rigs, all those 
beautiful house trucks that you have seen pictures of, I'm sure, and 
occasionally see around, and the school buses and all of that.   
 And both Red Star and Full Moon Rising were communal crews. 
We had— Full Moon Rising had two yurts, and one of them was 
the kitchen and gathering yurt, and the other was a smaller yurt 
that some people slept in, and then other people slept in trucks or 
tents or whatever they had. We camped in gravel pits a lot, because 
that was what was available, close by to the work, the contracts that 
we would win.  
 And some contracts were better than  others. When I first joined, we 
were working up Detroit up by Breitenbush, and the Forest Service 
had kind of a hard time with the women's crew, because the guys 
could walk over to the edge of the landing and pee off the edge, 
and the inspectors, the Forest Service people, were okay with that. 
But they didn't like it when we started dropping our pants and 
walking over to the edge of the unit and squatting to pee, you 
know? It wasn't how things were then. So the Forest Service didn't 
always like us that much. 
Long:  Can we pause for a second? I need to know, what was the process 
to replant? Did the Forest Service or the BLM come with seedlings, 
and then the Hoedads  dug the hole, and you put the seedling in?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, yeah. We all— our tools were tree bags and hoedags. That's 
the name of the tool, which is like a long hoe. It's eighteen  inches 
long or something. And one Hoedad, Joe Earp, designed a new 
bracket for the hoedag, which made it a much more efficient 
instrument. It had originally been just a ninety-degree angle, and 
he made this little bracket that attached the blade to the handle,  
that gave it a little bit of curve that made it a little easier to dig a 
hole. And that just depended on the terrain. I mean, we were 
traipsing through clear cuts the whole time.  
 So we'd have tree bags that were sat on the waist. They were pretty 
big, could carry three to five bundles of trees, which were 
anywhere from this big to this big, depending on the contract. And 
tree planting is a lot about strategy, and the lead planter— so, the 
way it works is the lead planter takes off and the person coming 
behind them has to plant whatever the specs are; the specs are how 
far apart the trees are supposed to be.  
 So you could be on a ten-by contract or a six-by contract, or  
whatever, and that meant that the trees had to be ten feet apart or 
six feet apart; and that kind of means in every direction. And the 
Forest Service would inspect, and they would cast plots, where 
they would randomly go into a place, stick a stick in the  ground, 
and then draw a circle of whatever diameter it was, and there 
needed to be a certain number of trees within that circle, according 
to what the specs of a contract were. And then they would dig a 
few trees, because the trees had to not have J roots, and J roots was 
when your hole wasn't deep enough and you just shove the tree in 
there, and the bottom of the root got turned up, which is not a good 
growing setup for a tree.  
 So the Forest Service, or BLM, whoever it was, would come and 
inspect, and our pay was based on that, because if we weren't 
meeting spec, then we were getting docked.   
Raiskin:  How much did you get paid?  
Mindlin:  It all depended. Hundred dollar days were really good, and 
possible. The first contract I was on was in Detroit area, and I don't 
really remember much about it. I was quite new to the whole scene, 
and that was in the fall of '77. And then after the New Year, we had 
a contract in Dorena, outside of Cottage Grove, and we were 
making a penny a tree, and it was the pits! We were—  
Raiskin:  Hard work?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, really hard work. You know, it was a wet and rainy January, 
slogging up and down clear cuts. We were pretty disheartened that 
spring. But I want to say that when I joined the crew, I met my 
partner there. She was a  really good tree planter, and she was often 
the lead, because she was a local girl, and she knew her way 
around the woods.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Mindlin:  Seventy-seven. 
Long:  Seventy-seven. 
Mindlin:  Yeah. I'll just fast forward quickly. She died in 2011 at age fifty-five.  
 So we traveled Oregon. It was great. It was wonderful. We had a 
contract in the Wallowas that— I think that was maybe the next 
season. I didn't even know where the Wallowas were, and I still  
don't know where we were then. But we got  to see beautiful, 
beautiful country, and traveling with a bunch of women, and—  
Raiskin:  And where did you sleep?  
Mindlin:  Either in the yurt or in tents or trucks or whatever we had. This is 
the Full Moon Rising T-shirt.  
Raiskin:  Oh, that's great.  
Long: Can you hold it over this way a little bit?  
Mindlin:  Yeah.  
Long:  Oh, right in front of you so we— yeah, there we go. Uh-huh.  
Raiskin:  That's great.  
Mindlin:  And this image was on the door of our crummy— a crummy— a 
crummy is a work vehicle, and they're often kind of like panel 
trucks with multiple seats in the back or seats along the edges and a 
rack on top, where we could store all our stuff and tools. We lived 
at 852 West Fourth, the heart of the Whit, and we parked our 
crummy in front of our house, and had all the stuff stored in the 
garage— the crew stuff stored in the garage over summer. We got a 
fair amount of flack in the neighborhood for having our crummy 
with that logo parked in front of our house. And we took our 
crummy to Sam Bond's Garage to have it worked on!  
Raiskin:  When it was a garage.   
Mindlin:  When it was a garage, yeah.  
Long:  And was there a lot of lesbians living in that neighborhood at the 
time?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, there were quite a few, and it was— I mean, Eugene was a 
very interesting place at that time. There were worker co-ops 
everywhere, just everywhere. Jackrabbit Press, Amazon Kung Fu, 
Women's Press, Crescent Construction, Hoedads, Starflower— just 
every time you turned around, there was another worker co-op 
somewhere. So it was quite heady times, and we tree planters were 
kind of the— we were well regarded in the community. We were 
the adventurous heroes who went off doing the good work in the 
woods, and came into town and partied.  
 So, I don't know if you all know the Vets Club, or— it's a great 
place to dance, and back then, there was a trio that appeared 
regularly at the Vets Club that were called the Mellow Man, and it 
was a like three piece swing trio, and it was known for swing 
dancing  and also for having the strongest drinks in town. And we 
would go there often, and various of us would get invited out onto 
the dance floor by these men who really knew how to dance. And 
some of us were good dancers and actually had a good time being 
swirled around. Not too many of us danced with each other at that 
time at that place.  
Long:  Can you tell us anything else about Eugene in the mid-1970s?   
Mindlin:  Well, let's see. Althea was in town then; I don't know if that name 
has come up. She's a musician,  and there were lots of women's 
events and women's dances, and Althea would— there was what 
was called the “Refrigerator Route.” So when an event was coming, 
there would be flyers, and people would take various refrigerator 
routes to go and distribute flyers to everyone's home, to put on 
their refrigerators.  
 Yeah, the “Perv Room”— the Riv Room, Riviera Club, was the gay 
bar at the time. It wasn't a women's bar, but it was a gay bar. 
Thursday night was women's night.  
Raiskin:  Was Mother Kali’s  in the Whit  then? The bookstore?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, Mother Kali’s  was right around— was on Blair, where that 
upscale sushi place is now. And Zoo Zoo's was on the corner where 
the pot shop is now.  
Raiskin:  Did you know Izzie Harbaugh?  
Mindlin:  Oh yeah. Sure. We all knew Izzie. 
Raiskin:  Can you describe her?  
Mindlin:  Impassioned.  
Raiskin:  Just the owner of the Mother Kali’s bookstore.  
Mindlin:  Yeah, Mother Kali’s. Yeah, she loved what she did, and she loved 
being the hub that Mother Kali’s  was, and very impassioned about 
both the politics of coming out in that time, or being out in that  
time, and about writing and words and the power that that shares 
and gives us.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what you were reading at the time, kinds of 
things?  
Mindlin:  I mean, I think of the various rounds of lesbian— there was lesbian 
science fiction, there were lesbian mysteries— the whole Naiad 
Press thing. There were local people, local women doing a lot of 
poetry. Adrienne  was one of those women, and Susan Reddick, 
and— yeah. I can just see that tiny little space off Blair where Izzie 
had that first storefront. Yeah.  
 I mean, it was very heady times, very intoxicating times. We felt 
there were a lot of us. We could do anything. There were lots of 
possibilities.  
 I planted for two seasons with Full Moon Rising, and the second 
season, there was a factional split over pay issues. Full Moon 
Rising, we lived communally and we worked by the share, which 
meant basically hourly wage. And I don't know what Red Star did, 
but all other crews were by the piece, so by the tree. And there 
were a group of women who were on the crew who wanted to 
work more by the tree, and we could not resolve this factional split 
and ended up— some older members— myself, my partner and 
some of our friends included, left the  crew at that time. And the 
crew went on as half and half, meaning they planted half by the 
tree and half by the share.   
Long:  Can you explain again what the share meant?  
Mindlin:  Share was like hourly wage.  
Raiskin:  And what were the pros and cons on the  way that you saw it 
should be?  
Mindlin:  I just came from communal collective background, and by the share 
made sense to me. You know, equal pay for equal work; 
everybody's out there doing the work and the camp person is 
staying home and doing the work, and everybody gets the same 
pay. It just made sense to me. I didn't have much analysis around 
it. It was just what made sense to me. And a lesson that— I don't 
know how well I have learned it, but I have learned it many times 
in my life, that what I consider a basic assumption is not necessarily 
shared by others, you know? So, that was a lesson in that piece.  
Long:  And can you tell us, was it Douglas firs that you planted?  
Mindlin:  Mostly fir, mostly Doug fir; sometimes larch, sometimes pine. 
Depended on where you were. We didn't work on the east side— 
that is, the east side of Oregon, east of the Cascades, I mean— very 
much, but it was mainly pine planting over there.  
 Then, in that time, there were a couple of things going on. One was 
that the state was having a hard time with worker co-ops, because 
we didn't fit the regular pay scale kind of stuff. And mostly it had 
to do with SAIF, the State Accident Insurance Fund, and how we fit 
or did not fit in with that.   
 And there was a serious accident, a injury  accident of a woman on 
our crew, Susie Grimes, who was learning tree climbing from a 
fellow Hoedad. Tree climbing was another thing that we could 
contract with the Forest Service for, and it was seed collection. And 
so, you were actually climbing fir or pine or whatever to collect 
cones and get seed, and Susie was being trained by a Hoedad  for 
the purpose of having that skill to work with. And she fell and 
shattered both her ankles, and is permanently disabled, and it kind 
of sunk the co-op because the co-op didn't, in my opinion, take 
responsibility for what needed to happen, for how to care for Susie 
when this happened in a work-related setting.  
Raiskin:  Was she covered by SAIF?  
Mindlin:  I don't remember and I don't know the details. I do know that Susie 
came from a wealthy background, and that her parents supported 
her a lot. But that was happening to lots of different co-ops around 
at the time, was that it was— we were not being able to successfully 
navigate the business parts of being a co-op within in the state 
system, and the state was not being particularly helpful about it, 
either.  
 So that was a big piece; that was a piece in the early '80s. And 
things just started changing then. I mean, the co-ops, they 
evaporated and things became much more dispersed in my 
experience. And we became townies; that's tree planter talk. And I 
started working for Garbagio's then, and Garbagio's was a 
cooperatively-owned, collectively run garbage and recycle  
collection company before— this was before curbside collection of 
recyclables was mandated, so no one was offering that service. So, 
we had a kind of unique niche, and I thought garbage holing was a 
gravy job; that's tree planting talk, too; I'll explain that in a minute.  
 But a gravy job because if it was raining too hard, you could just go 
get in the truck, and you went home every night to take a shower. 
Gravy is the good stuff, and gravy cruising is when, especially on 
crews that planted by the tree, is when good, fast planters went out 
ahead and took the good stuff and left the slogging through the 
undergrowth to the slow planters.  
 So, yeah, I thought Garbagio's was a gravy job, and plus, we got 
great stuff. There were a crew of us, there were probably six or 
eight drivers, and Rhys and I were living in the Whiteaker at the 
time, and one of work partners lived around the corner from us. It 
felt nice.  
Raiskin:  What did you do? What was your actual job?  
Mindlin:  My actual  job was driving around and hauling garbage, and we 
started out with a truck. Garbagio's was started by a man named 
Michael Gravino, and I never really knew him. He had kind of 
moved on by then. But he was apparently a visionary kind of wild 
man, and he designed this truck which had a huge, heavy 
fabricated metal bed with big sides on it, and there was a large bin, 
so a truck with a twelve-foot metal box on the back of it with a 
large compartment in the back for the actual garbage, and it had a  
swinging back door so we could dump it at the dump, and then 
separate compartments that we'd put recycled materials into.  
 And so, I drove this truck and jumped out at the curb and picked a 
garbage can up on my shoulder, and hoisted it up and dumped it 
in the back of the truck. And then we got a compactor! That was 
really cool when we got an actual garbage truck that you push the 
button and it made it all much smaller! And it was also kind of 
handy because in the early part of the route when the back wasn't 
too full, we gals could climb in the back of the truck and go pee in 
there, because there we were out driving through alleys and stuff, 
and no place to pee.  
 And my friend Sherry, who is a tree planter, who lived across the 
street from us in the Whiteaker, got a job  there, as well. Susan 
Onaclea, who I mentioned earlier, was working there. And we— it 
was a fun crew. It was a fun job.  
Long:  How many years did you work at Garbagio's?  
Mindlin:  I worked there probably three years or so? And then, a couple of 
things happened. One was— we had a warehouse out in Glenwood 
and some homeless friend of one of ours had been staying there, 
and there was some electrical problems and the warehouse caught 
on fire. We stored a lot of flammable, recyclable materials in there, 
and he was fine, but the truck burned and that set us back. And 
then around the same time was when the state passed mandated 
curbside collection of recycle, so we no longer had a unique service  
to offer and not— the big companies, they had to do it, so they 
started doing it.  
 Around that time— I think after that, I worked for Pearl Buck for a 
while. Do you all know— ? So I was a bus driver for Pearl Buck. I 
drove—  
Raiskin:  Can you describe Pearl Buck?  
Mindlin:  Pearl Buck was a support center for people with a wide  range of 
mental and physical disabilities, and they had lots of different 
programs. They had supported work setting for adults, and they 
had nursery settings for children whose parents were somewhere 
on the mentally retarded/developmentally delayed spectrum. And 
the kids weren't necessarily that, but they were growing up in 
compromised settings.  
 So I drove van for Pearl Buck for quite a while, and it was actually 
through— oh, and then I started working for Oregon Supported 
Living Program when they were first starting, and I did driving, as 
well. So I was driving clients around, and that was where I first 
came across Oregon Research Institute, because some of our OSLP 
folks worked in the copy center at ORI in their Franklin location.  
 My partner had many names. I'll just call her Rhys; that's the name 
she died with.  
Long:  Rhys?  
Mindlin:  Rhys. Yeah. When she was a tree planter, she was Otter. And Rhys 
had been studying ceramics at LCC, and through a classmate of 
hers, I met a woman who worked at ORI and ran  a research project 
looking at adolescent problem behavior and going into schools and 
doing assessments with students in classroom settings. And I got 
hired to do that work at ORI, because I realized at some point that 
if I wanted to be able to use my hands when I got old, I needed to 
make money with my brains, not my brawn. I have an old injury 
that has affected my— given me numbness and shoulder and all 
sorts of stuff.  
 So I decided to find a different way of supporting myself, and I 
started working at ORI then. And Rhys was doing ceramics and 
making beautiful, beautiful stuff that she sold at Saturday Market. 
And somewhere in there, we'd bought a house out River Road— 
close in River Road. The Whiteaker was driving Rhys crazy. It was 
when Reagan got elected and it suddenly seemed like there were 
many more mothers who didn't know how to deal with their 
children living close by us, and we wanted to leave the Whiteaker.  
 So we found a beautiful place out River Road on Hansen Lane. It 
was unoccupied at the time we found it, but had been owned by 
Shady Grove, who was a lesbian in the community, and many 
women lived at this property over time. And it has a front house 
and two smaller structures out back, and it has— it's about  half an 
acre, you know, the way some of those places on River Road are.   
 One of the big pieces for me was that there was an apple tree on it, 
and the only other place I'd ever seen those apples was at Black 
Bear, so it felt like home to me. And it also cost $15,000. There was 
no bottom to real estate market at the time, so we lucked  into this 
place which I call Bomboo  now. Yeah, and we started— so I was 
working at Pearl Buck then, and I think Rhys was still in school, 
and we started doing equinox and solstice circles with a group of 
women, and went on doing that for twenty-five years. And I 
brought the songbook that we used.  
 Yeah, I mean, do you have any other—  
Raiskin:  Well, who was in your circle for that?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Mindlin:  Gladys Campbell, Catherine Zukowski, Kendra Morrigan— 
different times, different—  
Raiskin:  So you did that for twenty-five years.  
Mindlin:  Twenty-five years, yeah.  
Raiskin:  So you had a pretty strong community for all these years.  
Mindlin:  Yeah, and you  know, it's so interesting what happens when you're 
a widow.  
Raiskin:  What's been your experience?   
Mindlin:  My community has dispersed. I see none of the women that I 
circled with all those years.  
Raiskin:  They're in couples? Is that why?  
Mindlin:  Not all, yeah. Maybe. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know 
what it is. I mean, that's not exactly true. I'm in touch with a 
handful, literally, of women that I circled with all those years. It's 
quite strange to me. I didn't expect it.  
Long:  It seems like your circles have had an impact, though, because 
other people we've interviewed have mentioned that.  
Mindlin:  Well,  yeah, we did them for a long time, and they were quite— 
they were great.  
Raiskin:  Where do you think people have dispersed to?  
Mindlin:  It just seems like in the '80s, things got real dispersed, and people— 
I don't know if it was people having children and just going into 
the family thing? A friend of mine who lived here for many years, 
but is in the Bay Area now, pointed out something that I hadn't 
really thought of, which is with the assimilation of gay and lesbian 
culture, that community doesn't exist in the same way. It's 
dispersed. It's spread out.  
 Yeah, I don't really get it.   
Raiskin:  So some of those institutions, the collective places are not in 
existence? Some of the places people gather— they used to 
gather— they're not there anymore.  
Mindlin:  True. True. Yeah, I mean— yeah. Yeah.  
Long:  Can you tell us if you were involved in any of the political activity 
campaigning against Measure  8 and 9, for example?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, yeah. We actually left town for a while in the mid-'90s 
because it just got too hard here.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that time?  
Mindlin:  We felt under attack and we— you know, we mobilized and did— 
I also sang with Soromundi for the first ten years of Soromundi's 
existence, and yeah, we were out singing at various events and 
door-to-door campaigning for various of the measures. I'm sorry, I 
haven't looked at the chronology. I've lost track of— because there 
was so many  in that time period, you know?  
 I had been working at ORI for a while then, and the project that I 
was working on had not gotten refunded, and we decided— and 
this was '93— so we decided to go to Black Bear. So, we went to 
Black Bear in spring of '93, and  we almost immediately had a 
women's drumming gathering there, which was pretty amazing, 
because it's a hard place to get to. But a bunch of people came; 
Gladys came and— Gladys and Jade— Gladys Campbell and— I'm  
blanking Jade's last name. Roberta Pupilli came, which is amazing 
to me, that she actually came to Black Bear.  
 And we stayed there on and off for two years, and Rhys built us a 
house, and she— there was a book that came out in the '70s called I 
Built Myself a House, and that's what she used to build us a house. 
There weren't very many people living at the ranch at the time, and 
one of the current and, at that time, problem was— us, small crew 
of people, lots of work to do, a large space, and maintenance 
having not been done in a regular way; so, those miles of ditches I 
talked about digging? They needed to be re-dug and fixed and 
patched, and we spent a lot of time just keeping systems— 
patching systems together, rather than actually making much 
progress— just trying to keep the pieces together so we could keep 
the garden watered and keep the water in the pond.  
Long:  Had you sold your River Road house?  
Mindlin:  No, we kept it. We were able to keep it. We rented it to a few 
people over time.  
 And then my work situation changed, and we got funding again, 
and decided to come back. Right when we came back, which was 
fall of '94, I think, Rhys went off with some friends of ours to do 
forest work in eastern Oregon, actually. And after that— she 
worked with these friends for a while, but it meant her being  away. 
And after that, she decided that she didn't want to have to travel 
for work anymore, and she went into massage school. And that  
was a big deal for her, because she was not of an intellectual 
background; none of her family had ever done college.  
 And it was a lot for her to take on, and we— I know a lot of 
anatomy because I helped Rhys study a lot with flash cards. And I 
was still at ORI. And then, Rhys got her massage license and her 
cancer diagnosis at the same time, in '99. Yeah, our life changed a 
lot then. I don't know if you all have so far eluded cancer in your 
close family, but it's a harsh companion.  
Raiskin:  Did you find you had community at the time to help you?  
Mindlin:  Yes and no. Rhys is a very private person in some ways, and she 
didn't— it was hard for her to share about having cancer when she 
was first diagnosed. She got to be an old hand and wasn't so shy 
about it anymore over time. So, I've been around cancer a lot in the 
past— what is it now? Almost twenty  years. And I know of quite a 
few people whose cancer experience is— they are diagnosed, they 
receive treatment, and whatever that treatment is for whatever that 
cancer is— and that's it. And they return to regular life and go on.  
 And then there are others who seem to have— who it dogs and just 
keeps coming, and that was Rhys' circumstance. She had something 
coming up every couple of years or so.  
Long:  When was she diagnosed?  
Mindlin:  Ninety-nine. And she had a lumpectomy— and I can't even 
remember if she had radiation then. I kind of don't think so.   
 And then, she had a palpable lump within two years or so, and that 
was when we found out that the person who had done her surgery 
was not actually a surgical oncologist, but simply a breast 
specialist, and who didn't— I don't know. It didn't seem like they 
took her very seriously.  
Long:  Was that a doctor in Eugene?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, yeah. He's not around anymore, as far as I know. But at the 
time, he was the go-to person for breast surgery. Yeah, so that—  
Raiskin:  How would you characterize how you were treated as a lesbian 
couple in the medical world?  
Mindlin:  It was way different at different times. In the beginning, we were in 
a bunch of different circumstances where people said ridiculous 
things to us.  
Long:  Like what?  
Mindlin:  Oh, like a sonogram tech who asked if I had discovered the lump. 
Oh, this wasn't lesbianism that one— there is one surgical 
oncologist in this town, Thomas Trezona; I don't recommend him. 
He got in Rhys’ face, like three inches away, and told her that her 
twigs and sticks would not save her, and also told her that 
mastectomy was ugly when he was preparing to do a mastectomy 
on her. That was later.  
Raiskin:  Were you treated respectfully as her partner?   
Mindlin:  In many circumstances, yes. Certainly at the end we became quite 
good friends with Dr. Benjamin Cho; he's a medical oncologist; I 
recommend him highly. And I was diagnosed with two different 
kinds of cancer within two months in '08, and Rhys was okay 
enough to be able to support me through that. And I was— I was 
just pissed. I was so fucking pissed that this was happening to me, 
because I was too busy and I had too much to do to get through it! 
And I did, and I am so far one of those who had diagnosis, was 
treated, and have had nothing since.  
 Yeah, we went on doing circles for a long time in that time, and 
then at some point, we couldn't do it anymore and I stopped. I let 
people know that we were not going to be calling circle, and I really 
hoped that someone else would pick it up, and that didn't happen.  
 After Rhys died, I went on calling circle for a while, and I couldn't 
do it, partly because I still had two dogs and it was too much to 
have people and both dogs in that setting, and when it was me and 
Rhys, we could manage  it, but I couldn't really do it when it was 
just me. And again, I tried to find people who wanted to do a little 
pre-planning and organizing with me, and I just couldn't manifest 
it. 
Raiskin:  What do you think needs to happen to pull people together as 
people are aging and need each other's support?  
Mindlin:  Social settings where we come together in some regular way, I 
think. But I don't know what those would be, and I know also—  
social settings only take you so far, if that's all that you have is a 
social gathering every now and again.  
Raiskin:  Can you imagine what you'd like to see happen?  
Mindlin:  It's really hard for me to imagine that. I am not very outward these 
days, and have not been for the past seven years, which is how  long 
it's been since my partner died. Though I am calling equinox circle 
next month, which I haven't done in five or six years, and it's partly 
because I don't have any dogs— they both died by now— and 
partly because of physical circumstances changed in my home 
setting and I feel I have access to space I didn't feel I had access to 
before.  
Long:  For the benefit of people watching this video, can you explain what 
the circle is?  
Mindlin:  We came together to sing, and I— this is one of our songbooks 
here. I put this together. There's, I don't know, dozens of songs 
here, and so I had about a dozen copies of these, and we would 
distribute— so we would gather and potluck, and then go out back 
on our half acre and have a fire, and call circle— that is, in the 
witch tradition, call on the directions and close the circle and sing 
as long as we wanted. And the way people often did it was by 
calling out page numbers from the book.  
 And Rhys  and I, depending on our desires, Rhys  and I would do as 
much tone setting, in terms of what the holiday was and what was 
on our minds at the time.   
Raiskin:  Were you raised in any religions tradition as a child?  
Mindlin:  No.  
Raiskin:  So you were creating spiritual context?  
Mindlin:  I mean,  we did a lot of circling at Black Bear. And so I was already 
a circle song person long before I became part of that in the lesbian 
community. And we did, as I think many rural communities— we 
created our own gatherings and ways of coming together.  
Raiskin: Are you retired now?  
Mindlin:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Yeah?  
Mindlin:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any things you'd like to pursue in retirement?  
Mindlin:  I am pursuing music. I sing with Singing Heart Chorus, which is a 
community-based chorus in the Singing Alive tradition, which is a 
circle song tradition that I knew nothing about until very recently.  
Long:  What is it?  
Mindlin:  Singing Alive is people who gather in song circle— there will be a 
gathering outside of Salem next weekend. It's been going on for 
five years or so; hundreds of people coming together to sing. And 
there are various song carriers of the tradition, and one of whom is 
named Lawrence Cole, who also comes through this town to lead  
grief song circles. I don't know if you've heard of those, they've  
been—  
Raiskin: There’s Threshold s. 
Mindlin:  Yeah, no, this is different than Threshold. Have you all ever heard 
the name Sobonfu Somé? Do you know that?  
Raiskin: Uh-uh [negative].  
Mindlin:  She's a woman I— West African who was known from before she 
was born that her work was to come teach white people how to 
grieve. And she did that, and created a tradition of grief circles, 
grief song circles. And Lawrence Cole and Rob Miller, both of 
whom— Lawrence is not in this town, but Rob Miller is— they are 
following in that tradition and leading grief song ceremonies, and 
in those settings, you create an altar and sing for hours the same 
song, and hold space for the people who want to go to the altar and 
prostrate themselves at the altar.  
 So Lawrence Cole, who leads that singing tradition, is also part of 
the Singing Alive tradition, and it's earth-based, earth-friendly, 
uplifting, very fun songs; pretty easy learning in the oral tradition; 
nothing written, no written music.  
 So I've been singing twice a week for several years now, which is 
really nice, and I've also been studying piano with Paul Safar  for 
four or five years or so in order to notate my own music. I have a 
lot of songs come through me and they exist in the oral tradition,  
and I want to have some of them exist in the written tradition, as 
well. So, I've been studying piano as a way to learn how to read 
and write music, basically. So I'm not learning other people's music; 
I'm just learning my own. I'm just creating my own.  
Raiskin:  Did you sing with  Soromundi at all?  
Mindlin:  I sang with Soromundi for ten years.  
Raiskin:  But not now?  
Mindlin:  No. I stopped singing with them around when Rhys  got diagnosed, 
actually, and didn't have the energy. And they're too big now. I'm 
not that interested in that  setting.  
 I also had a falling out with Lisa many years ago, Lisa Hellemn. I 
had been singing with Soromundi for ten years, and we were doing 
the tenth  anniversary recording. And we had been singing a song 
of mine that Lisa had arranged that I wrote for Soromundi called 
Sing Praise, and Lisa did a beautiful arrangement. I knew it could 
sound that way, and she knew how to make it sound that way. And 
we were performing it that season, and we recorded it along with 
many other songs for the CD, and Lisa did not include it on the CD.  
 And I was shocked speechless, and it was one of those— 
understanding that I have assumptions that are not shared by other 
people. It made sense to me that a chorus member who has 
contributed original music for every year that we had been singing, 
who had a song that we were singing— an original song we were  
singing— that that song would be included on the album. It made 
no sense to me that that didn't happen. And I was so distressed by 
it that I couldn't talk to Lisa about it. Now I would have been able 
to, but back then, I couldn't. And when I did mention it to her 
months later, she was like, "Oh, there was this other song I wasn't 
that pleased with. I could have put that one in there, but— "  
 How I feel about the songs that come through me are, they are like 
children. They have their work to do in the world, and they need to 
be set out into the world to do their work. And that is a regret of 
mine that that song didn't make it out into the world at that time, 
because it's a real nice song.  
 So, pursuing music is mostly what I'm interested in, and trying to 
maintain my place, which is a lot to maintain. And my daughter 
lives in town; I have two teenage grandsons who I spend a lot of 
time with. They live two blocks away from me, which is really nice. 
And I do have— I am still connected to some of my old friends. I 
have dinner twice a month with one set, and dinner maybe once a 
month with another set. And whenever Kendra Morrigan passes 
through town, we see each other. She managed to be here for my 
fortieth  anniversary last fall, which I needed somebody else to 
celebrate with since Rhys  wasn't around. So, we went out to dinner 
at Grit. It was really nice.  
Raiskin:  Back in the Whit.  
Mindlin:  Back in the Whit, yeah. Yeah.   
Raiskin:  When you look back, what would you say was your greatest joy of 
living and working here?  
Mindlin:  Well, tree planting was great, and I really liked being— I liked— I 
mean, that job, but also my Oregon Research Institute work just got 
me out in Oregon. I love Oregon. It's a beautiful place. I love all the 
parts of it, and I love having been able to be in lots of different 
communities in a— so, when we were tree planters, we were 
working in the woods. When I was at Oregon Research Institute, 
we were working in the schools. So, I got to go to lots of 
communities and work in the schools, and see what small 
communities were like, and how the schools worked, and I really 
have enjoyed being as intimate with Oregon as I have been able to 
be in my life.  
 And singing is the other thing, and Rhys and I sharing that, having 
that as a mainstay of our life for many, many years.  
Raiskin:  Did you get married?  
Mindlin:  We did!  
Raiskin:  I mean, that's kind of a major experience for lesbian couples. What 
was that like for you?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, yeah. It was  when it was legal in Multnomah County, for 
whatever that brief episode was. And I actually asked Rhys to 
marry me, and she was quite surprised, because I had never been 
one to— in our early years, I never committed beyond as long as  
we still both wanted to do it! So, when was that? I don't even 
remember.  
Long:  Around 2006, maybe?  
Mindlin:  Yeah, that sounds about right. So we went up to Salem— we went 
up to Multnomah County and got our license, and then came back 
and— oh, Kathy Knowles, I forgot that name,  who was a regular 
circle person. We got married in an equinox circle. Kathy married 
us, and then we got our money sent back to us about three months 
later, or whatever it was!  
 So, yeah, we were married back then! And we were registered 
domestic partners. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Is there something we haven't asked you about that you'd like to 
cover?  
Mindlin:  I mean, there's so many stories. There's lots and lots of stories, but I 
don't think so. I brought a photo album which has photographs of 
most of us Tree Planters that were taken by Gladys Campbell.  
Long:  Uh-huh, okay.  
Mindlin:  And so I don't know if that's anything that can show on this.  
Long:  I can look at it.  
Mindlin:  You all can—  
Long:  Yeah.   
Mindlin:  Yeah. Okay.  
Long:  Thank you. That's great. That's wonderful.  
Mindlin:  Yeah. So, I mean, I'm sure I'll think of stories I wish I had told when 
I'm gone, but nothing comes up right now.  
Raiskin:  It's been wonderful to hear your stories.  
Long:  Yeah.  
Mindlin:  Thank you.  
Long:  Yeah.  
Mindlin:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  It's a piece we haven't heard yet.  
Mindlin:  Huh. Interesting. Yeah, well, we had a lot of fun.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Raiskin:  Thank you!  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  