 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Lynne Lucas on August 22, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Special Collections and University Archives, and Professor Judith 
Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality 
Studies.  
 Lynne, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Lucas:  Yes, I do.  
Long:  Thank you. Let's just begin with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us where you were born, where you grew up, and something 
about your early background?  
Lucas:  Happy to. I was the third born daughter to a middle-class working 
family in Seattle. Born in Seattle, Washington. We moved to a 
suburb of Portland when I was still a baby. My dad started a 
heating and air conditioning business. My mom was a housewife. 
Pretty typical growing up family in a working-class neighborhood, 
except my dad was an alcoholic, so we had that kind of 
dysfunction. My mom and dad divorced at fourteen, when I was 
fourteen. We moved to the Midwest for a year, back to Oregon, so 
three different high schools.  
 And then I came to Eugene in 1975 to go to Lane Community 
College, because my sister was pregnant and having a baby,  and 
we were really close, and I wanted to be close to her and help with 
childcare and be an auntie. And so I moved into what was called 
Christus House on Eighteenth  and Potter at the U of O campus. It 
was a Lutheran student housing. I'd been born and raised in the 
Lutheran church, and so was still very involved in the church. 
Lived at Christus House for a year and a half, maybe. And 
coincidentally, the woman across the hall from me was a lesbian 
from Finland, and we fell in love.   
 I had dated in high school, and a little bit in college, and it was just 
one of those fairy tale kind of things. Of course, her being European 
kind of added to the— I don't know, it  was just the fun, I guess. We 
were together two and a half years. She graduated and went back 
to Finland. I went with her and spent a summer living with her and 
her family in the middle of Finland, and then decided I really 
wasn't a lesbian; I had just happened to fall in love with this 
woman. This was 1977.  
 Came back to the States to finish my degree in home economics at 
Oregon State University in Child Development and Family Life. 
There are three of us in Eugene that have that same degree, three 
lesbians in Eugene. And so that was kind of fun.  
Raiskin:  Can I ask you a question?  
Lucas:  Sure.  
Raiskin:  When you just said you realized you weren't a lesbian, did you 
have negative feelings about lesbianism or homosexuality?  
Lucas:  Not at all.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Lucas:  Not at all. I knew that the church frowned upon it and thought it 
wasn't okay, but I felt like my relationship with this woman was— 
It didn't feel wrong. So that's what I went with.   
Long:  Had you been told growing up in the church that homosexuality 
was wrong?  
Lucas:  Yes. Yes. And in my family. That part was really scary, talking to 
my family members. So, I was finishing up my degree at Oregon 
State, dating men a lot, and had been in this wonderful, consensual, 
loving lesbian relationship and just finding it really different to be 
with men, and not quite understanding how that should all  be. Not 
the sexual part, but more the social dynamics of the whole thing, 
and the power imbalances. It just felt strange.  
 Right before I graduated from Oregon State, I came out to myself, 
and I knew only one other lesbian in the world, and that was a 
woman in Eugene that had been a friend of the woman from 
Finland when she was here going to school. I contacted her, and of 
course we ended up being in a relationship for about a year.  
 And I moved to Eugene to come to graduate school, and so I really 
didn't know anything about the Eugene culture. I was here first 
because of family, and then to come back here to go to graduate 
school. And while I was in graduate school, I came out to my 
family, and they disowned me. My sister lives in town, and I had  
been really close to her, and her child was three years old by then, 
and she just told me I wasn't welcome in her home anymore. And 
she still lives in Eugene. I just saw her yesterday. We meet three or 
four times a year for coffee. It's real light. I've tried to talk about the 
hard stuff; she won't go there. It's very painful. As you can see.   
 So anyway, my chosen family and friends became my family. My 
mom, it took her a while to come around, and she died a year and a 
half ago, and she was my best champion toward the end. Came 
from a conservative, Republican, religious— kind of bigot, to— you 
know, she voted for Obama; she embraced the lesbian culture. She 
loved my family. That part is a happy story. My sister, not so much. 
And then I had another sister that died of breast cancer when I was 
thirty-one. And she was a sister who was loving and  kind and 
accepting, so that was sad.  
 What else do you want to know? Anything else I should go back 
and talk about?  
Raiskin:  When you were on campus here, did you see any gay community 
on campus or in town?  
Lucas:  We were pretty isolated. I remember my girlfriend at the time was 
talking a class from Olga Broumas, and it was radical. I mean, she 
was doing vaginal exams in her classroom, and it was— everybody  
had to go get speculums, you know, so we could see our cervixes. I 
remember running around one night, going to Tiffany’s and 
Hiron’s and trying to find a drug store that sold speculums, 
because we didn't have a clue.  
Raiskin:  So she was a nationally acclaimed poet.  
Lucas:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.   
Lucas:  She did amazing things. And every— you know, you hear about 
what she was doing in her class, and all of the baby dykes went to 
her class the next week to see what was going on.  
 But I wasn't out. I was just learning a little bit. I remember going to 
Book and Tea. You know, they had a little tiny lesbian section that 
was maybe a Gertrude Stein book and—  
Long:  A bookstore?  
Lucas:  The Book and Tea on Nineteenth. 
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Lucas:  Nineteenth and— Agate. It's where the— It's my daughter's 
favorite restaurant. The— 
Raiskin:  Beppe and Gianni’s? 
Lucas:  Yeah. That used to be a bookstore. Yeah. Before Mother Kali’s. 
Well, I think Mother Kali’s  at that time was down on Blair and 
Fifth.  
 But being just scared to death to go in there and even go to this 
little section that was marked "Women," and there was a book or 
two that had "lesbian" in the title. It was just terrifying.  
Long:  And this was 1970— 
Lucas:  Seventy-five.  
Long:  Nineteen seventy-five.  
Lucas:  Seventy-six, yeah. Yeah. Doesn't seem like that long ago. Oh, let's 
see. So I came out, dated a while, ended up in a long term 
relationship with a woman for eight years. And we were involved 
in Metropolitan Community Church. I was still trying to find that 
church/spiritual connection somehow, and— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe the church?  
Lucas:  Yeah. It was a church that was founded by a gay man, I think in 
New York City, or maybe L.A. Mostly attended by gay people, 
pretty— pretty biblical-based, except they kind of made the whole 
gay thing be about love and acceptance. It was really  fun, really 
social. Very much a group that I could just be myself, make really 
good friends. I was really involved in the singing and the services 
and the outreach. They did lots of things in the community. You 
know, we rafted and did picnics and holidays  together. So it was 
really a family.  
Long:  But it was a Christian church.  
Lucas:  It's Christian, yes. Yes. Mostly people that had been raised in 
Christian faith that were still wanting that kind of connection but 
couldn't go to their own churches. So— and my mom, when she 
would come to visit, she'd always come to church with me, and 
that was always really, really fun.  
 That eight year relationship ended, and because I really wanted a 
kid. And I didn't know how that was going to happen, but this 
partner didn't, and it was really clear that I did, so I looked at all  
different options for becoming a mom and ended up deciding I 
wanted to adopt. And I actually, there were a couple of lesbian 
women in town that had adopted babies from India, so I started  
there, and then India became unavailable. The politics changed, 
and the paperwork got lost, and babies weren't available anymore, 
so the adoption agency, which were very conservative Christian in 
McMinnville, sent my papers to Ecuador.  
Long:  Was that PLAN? 
Lucas:  Yeah, it was PLAN, which a bunch of us used. It was the only one 
that was working with single women at the time, and being gay 
was never a question that got asked back then.  
 Ecuador had four different babies for me, and they all became 
unavailable as time went on, and then I got a call in early October 
of 1992, did I want to pursue China, and I had a baby girl in my 
arms by the end of 1992. Things do work out the way they're 
supposed to. I was single at the time. Kind of dating this woman,  
she went to China with me, she was really involved in my child's 
life for a while. But mostly I raised my daughter on my own until 
she was ten.  
 Let's see. Before I went to China, I started working in 1977 as a 
special ed teacher in 4J. At first I worked  at the U of O at the Center 
for Child Development, in a model preschool for a year or two. 
And then I started working with kids that had severe disabilities in 
the 4J system. And had a classroom for about ten years, and then  
started consulting all around Lane County with teachers that had 
kids that needed assistive technology.  
Long:  Can you explain 4J?  
Lucas:  Oh, 4J is the public school in Eugene. It's called District 4J.  
 When I first started teaching, it was '77 or '78, and I wasn't out. 
Nobody was. You know? You went to the bars on the weekend and 
on Thursday night at the Riv, and you had your little groups and 
you played softball and did what you did, but you didn't talk about 
it at work. I had a classroom, and I had two pretty conservative 
Christian middle aged women that were the educational assistants 
in my classroom, and so it just didn't feel safe.  
 Once I transitioned and started working as an assistive technology 
consultant, there was a woman named Betsy Adelka who worked 
in the same office, and we all, in— it must have been 1992, because 
it was right before I went to China— We made a cake on the 
National Coming Out Day— I think it's October 11th or 
something— and put it in the staff room and said, "Thanks for your 
support," and it was that little— Keith Haring, is that the picture of 
the guy coming out of the door? And wrote our names in a card, 
and we got some— not hostile, but concerns, and a lot of people 
were like, "Oh, yeah, we've known. Thank you for being open 
about it." And then the No on 9 thing was happening, and that's 
really why we did it. We had people say, "I love you, I care about 
you, but I can't vote for that thing—" or, vote against it. And other  
people saying, "Because you came out, we're going to support you 
and value  you." So that was scary, because it was— 
Raiskin:  And you had been through some other referendums before that, 
because you lived here. So, in the '70s, there was 51, and then I 
believe there was 8, these anti-gay measures.  
Lucas:  And there was the Springfield thing that I remember, too. 
Raiskin:  Right.  
Long:  City of Springfield— 
Lucas:  I don't know that I was that involved politically with them back 
then.  
Raiskin:  But by Measure 9, which was really virulently anti-gay, you— 
Lucas:  Yeah. And because I was teaching and some school teachers were 
targeted that were actually targeted by the right wing to— as 
lesbian or gay people in their schools, in their kids' schools— It was 
very scary. And so gay school teachers had meetings together, in 
clandestine places so nobody could find out about it, and figured 
out ways that we could support each other and keep each other 
safe. I mean, one of my friends couldn't teach during that time 
because she was targeted and she got put on leave.  
Long:  What was targeted? What does that mean?  
Lucas:  It meant that one of the parents assumed she was gay, and I think 
they talked to the— it was on the news and in the newspaper that  
this woman was a lesbian and had looked at her daughter in the PE 
locker room, or some outrageous  assumption that wasn't true. But 
scary for this person. And just not being sure that the union would 
have our backs if we were targeted. Usually it was accusations that 
we were afraid of people making up. And, I mean, special ed has a 
ton of gay and lesbian teachers.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think that is?  
Lucas:  Maybe it's just the difference. I don't know.  
Raiskin:  You mean feeling different yourself?  
Lucas:  Yeah. Yeah. And having a community that's oppressed and 
different. I don't know. It kind of binds you together, maybe. But 
yeah, there's handfuls of us. Yeah. Which has always been a great 
thing, because you had camaraderie within your profession. 
Raiskin:  During the '80s, all the '80s when you were teaching and then 
consulting, you were fairly closeted.  
Lucas:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  If you ran into a family from the school, what would you do, or 
how would you speak with them?  
Lucas:  I would probably— if I was with my partner or something, I would 
say, "This is my roommate." Yeah. People knew I had a roommate. 
I've always used the word "partner” in terms of a significant 
relationship.   
Long:  Can you tell us more about the process to adopt your daughter?  
Lucas:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Long:  What you had to do with the agency?  
Lucas:  Yeah.  First, you had to find an agency that was willing to work 
with single women, and you had to meet the criteria of making 
enough money, having a job and health insurance, having a stable 
home where you lived— so you had to fill out all that paperwork, 
write  like a ten-page description of your life, your family history, 
your medical history, your spirituality, how you view relationships 
and discipline, and your interactions with kids, and your 
friendships. It was just— they  gave you a list of questions, so I had 
a couple of the lesbians that had adopted shared their stories with 
me, so that gave me a reference.  
 You had to do all your bank account information and have home 
studies done, which meant a social worker came into your home 
and looked in your closets and through your cupboards and made 
sure that everything was up to snuff.  
Long:  What was the social worker like? Were they sympathetic? Did they 
understand what was— did they help you?  
Lucas:  Not helpful, in a way, but encouraging. But I wasn't out.  
Long: Okay.   
Lucas:  It wasn't ever asked. If it had been— I went into the adoption 
process with a lot of integrity, because I felt like I wasn't going to lie 
about who I was in order to be able to  be a mom and adopt a baby. 
Nobody ever asked me if I was a lesbian. In all the paperwork I 
filled out, I was just single. They asked about significant 
relationships, and I had said I had an eight year relationship that 
didn't work out because I wanted to parent. I was really honest. 
Honest about my dad's alcoholism, honest about where I lived and 
what I liked to do. I mean, it just felt like that was so important.  
 When I was in China— Going  back, it took six years in order for the 
paperwork and the process and countries looking at different 
things, becoming available. Once China opened up its doors to 
Americans to adopt, it went really quickly. And I had great support 
from the adoption agency and my family and friends, and the trip 
to China was amazing. They knocked on the door and gave me this 
beautiful baby, and I felt like— 
Long:  Can you talk more about that moment when you saw your 
daughter?  
Lucas:  Well, I had been dating this woman named Betsy, who was very 
excited about a baby and wanted to be a part of this child's family, 
and so she came with me to China, and she was the perfect one to 
be there, because she was loving and kind and comfortable. We  
kind of just did this caretaking and falling in love with this baby 
together. It was lovely.   
 When we were in China, I mean, you have all these feelings of— 
like new parents do, towards this infant, and it's amazing and 
miraculous and loving, so we were sweet with each other, and 
somebody said, "You can't do that." Like if you put your arm 
around each other in public, or hold hands, or take an elbow or 
something while you're walking. And then one of the other families 
asked if we were lesbian. And I, of course, for my place said, "Yes, 
but you can't tell anybody, because they'll take my baby away." 
Because in those days, it was illegal to be homosexual in China.  
 She was— this other woman that had asked me was a very 
conservative born-again Christian, and her and her husband had 
brought their bibles with them to China. And we had bonded and 
did some things together with them, and I asked her if she would 
swear on her bible that she wouldn't tell, because we were leaving 
China the next day. And I thought, "Oh my gosh, they're going to 
come and take my baby away if they find this out." She never told.  
To this day, she never told.  
Long:  Could we back up for a sec?  
Lucas:  Sure.  
Long:  So, you book your flight.  
Lucas:  Yes. 
Long:  To China.  
Lucas:  Yes.   
Long:  Other prospective parents are booking their flights to go to China. 
Do you all stay in the same hotel?  
Lucas:  Yeah.  
Long:  Did the agency help you?  
Lucas:  We all met up in San Francisco and got on the same flight to 
Shanghai, and everybody's all excited and talking about what 
they're going to name their kid and how old their babies are and all 
of that. And we arrive in Shanghai and take a train to Nanjing, 
which is the county seat, or the state seat for that province, and do 
all this paperwork  there. It's December, and it's cold. And we were 
lucky we had nice hotels that had heat, but most offices we were in 
didn't have heat. All the men wore black leather jackets and 
smoked cigarettes, and all the officials and all the government 
people. Let's  see. Then we stayed in Nanjing for one night. There 
were eight or ten  of us. We had a facilitator and an interpreter, and 
got in a van and went two and a half hours to this town of half a 
million people called Yangzhou, and that's where my daughter 
was.  
Long:  Was she in an— 
Lucas:  An orphanage.  
Long:  An orphanage.  
Lucas:  She had been in an orphanage. The story goes, she had been in an 
orphanage, and when she was two weeks old she was really sick,  
and one of the workers at the orphanage took her home because 
she was going to die. She was really sick. And the family took her 
home to take care of her, and found medical care for her, and took 
her to a doctor every day for IV fluids and antibiotics, and little by 
little she got better, and they kept her. And when I got to China, the 
orphanage director went to their house and said, "This baby is 
going to the United States." And the night before I got there, they 
took this baby to give to me. From this family.  
 When we were there, we went to visit the orphanage with the 
babies, and this one woman was just all over this baby of mine. 
And so I had her write her name down on a little piece of paper, 
and when I got home I sent her some pictures. And she kept 
saying, she kept pointing to the baby and to herself, and I was like, 
"You must have taken care of her." I couldn't get an interpreter to 
figure out what was going on. I sent her pictures, and the day 
before Mother's Day, in May, I get an eight page letter in Chinese, 
written from this woman. And a package that looked like a pillow 
that was a piece of cotton with an address label on it that had been 
hand sewn, full of baby clothes that she had hand made. And a 
letter explaining what had happened with this baby that I had 
taken home.  
 When I had gotten to China, the baby that I had had the paperwork 
for was sick and unavailable, so they replaced the baby I was 
supposed to get with this baby that had been in this care of this 
woman and her family. She said, "We never anticipated that she  
would leave us. We thought she would be ours forever." And she 
said, "We called her Little Treasure" and all these beautiful names, 
"and we finally settled on the name Yin, Y-I-N, which means ‘to 
lead or to guide.’" I didn't know that until May, so I had named her. 
We had a birth date. It was all for this other baby that wasn't 
available. So we had to scramble and change her birth certificate 
and all of that, but I really believed I got the baby I was supposed 
to get. But her story was so much different. She was only in the 
orphanage for a few days until this woman took her home, and she 
was a part of her family.  
Raiskin:  How old was she when she came to you?  
Lucas:  Six months. She'd been— from  two weeks to five and a half 
months, she'd been with this family. And it was obvious, because 
the other families that got babies, they made little eye contact. A lot 
of them were doing self-soothing  behaviors, and my daughter was 
cooing and engaging and laughing and motorically more 
advanced. She was kind of the clown. You know? She would just 
crack up, you know, and the other babies were just blank. It was 
hard for other parents to see that. And it was hard for me to see it. 
And so as I kind of put the pieces together later on, it became 
obvious as to why she was so well cared for. Yeah. And 
emotionally just really— I mean, she grieved and she cried. She lost 
her whole culture and language, and we were white faces that 
she'd never seen before. But— yeah.   
 We got out of China. They let us go. But when I came home— This 
relates to me  being a lesbian— One of the other families from New 
York, a stockbroker from New York that was forty  and adopted a 
baby, she had never held a baby, changed a baby, or fed a baby, but 
she wanted a baby. She came to China to get a baby, and she got a 
baby. And she— her baby cried all the time, and I would offer to 
hold her baby, and her baby would stop crying. I felt like it was 
because I connected— or wasn't afraid, or knew what this baby 
needed. And she got the biggest baby, and she didn't even have a 
stroller, and her back was killing her. China was not a good 
experience for her. So this baby Elizabeth, every time I'd hold her, 
she'd stop crying. And she's like, "Well, maybe you should've been 
her mother." She was a woman that had an attitude.  
 When she got back to New York, she called the adoption agency 
and told them that I had not bonded with my baby, that I was not 
taking good care of my baby, and that I was a lesbian and shouldn't 
have been allowed to adopt a baby. And they sent the social worker 
to my house immediately with those accusations.  
Raiskin:  Oh my God.  
Lucas:  And by that time, I think it was like three or four days after I'd been 
home from China.  
Raiskin:  What was her motivation to do that? Do you know?  
Lucas:  No. I don't. I don't. She left China early because she was having 
such a hard time with the culture and the poverty. She just— and  
we stayed in really nice places, but they weren't nice enough for 
her. She just— 
Long:  How many days were you in China?  
Lucas:  Two weeks.  
Long:  Two weeks.  
Lucas:  In the dead of winter. It was cold.  
Raiskin:  But the social worker came to your house?  
Lucas:  Yes. And it was the same social worker that did my adoption home 
study, and she just said, "You know, we had some concerns," and I 
just of course burst into tears and said, "Look, this is my baby." And 
then, "Of course I love her, and I can't imagine what was going on 
in that woman's mind." Also, this woman in China spent most of 
her time in the bar drinking, so that I think had something to do 
with her motivation. I don't know.  
 We got all our kids on New Years Eve at 8:00 at night, and in the 
town where we were, the bells ring at midnight and all around the 
town, and you're supposed to go out and listen to the bells, and 
that will bring you good luck in the New Year. We did that, and 
when we were doing that, two of the other couples were in the bar 
with their baby, drinking. It's just a different lifestyle, a different 
way of experiencing children.   
 At one point, all of our receipts for meals were getting divided 
equally, and I realized that these two other couples were drinking 
enormous amounts of liquor that was being billed to all of us, so I 
said I didn't want to pay for the liquor, and that may have been the 
motivation. I don't know. I'm a little sensitive to alcoholism, as you 
may be able to tell.  
 The social worker said, "It's really clear you love your baby. I don't 
understand where this is coming from." While she was at my 
house, one of my best friends that I had taught school with who 
had also adopted a baby two years before, came. And she was livid 
and said to the social worker, "How dare you interrupt this 
precious time that Lynne is having with this baby? She's just gotten 
back from China. This is totally absurd, and you need to stop." I 
couldn't say it, but she did. I thanked her for that.  
 Then as soon as she left,  I called my attorney Dana Weinstein and 
said, "Dana, I'm scared. They're accusing me," and it's like, uh— 
and she said— she gave me really good advice. She was wonderful. 
And she said, "Call the adoption agency. Tell them how outraged 
you are about these accusations. Don't tell them you're a lesbian. 
Just say you cannot believe somebody is making accusations of 
those kind, and if they need to see you or your baby, you are happy 
to drive to McMinnville where their office is and answer any 
questions they might have. But you are having— this is exactly 
what you wanted. You've bonded with your baby. You love her 
with all your heart, and you can't imagine what this woman had to  
say." And I did. I mean, I was so scared to call, and they just said, 
"Oh, no, no, no. It's okay. It's okay. You don't need to come."  
 I mean, that was really wonderful advice. And I still had integrity. I 
didn't lie. I was just outraged that they could make those 
accusations.  
Long:  You must have felt really relieved, though, when the  final adoption 
papers were completed.  
Lucas:  Yeah. Yeah. They were actually completed in China, and then we 
did re-adopt in Oregon. You didn't have to, but I did, just because I 
wanted to be safe, and I wanted her to be naturalized, also, and not 
wait for  citizenship. Her birth certificate actually has me on there as 
a mother, and it's an Oregon birth certificate, which seems really 
strange. I have all of her Chinese paperwork, too.  But that's never 
been an issue, and when she was four my mom and I went to 
Portland and she was naturalized as a US citizen. I kind of wanted 
to wait until she was older so she could remember and be a part of 
it, and with things being so uneasy in the political climate, 
everybody was just saying "Do it as soon as you can." So we did, 
and it's never been an issue.  
Raiskin:  Did you find support in the lesbian community as a mother?  
Lucas:  Oh, yeah.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?   
Lucas:  I had really good friends that were aunties that took her one night a 
week. I had people that would come over and hang out with her so 
I could go on a date. I mean, it was just— I found the lesbian 
community was wonderful. It was wonderful. And Liane  was the 
first Chinese baby to be adopted in Oregon to a lesbian mom, and 
now there are hundreds. Hundreds, even in Eugene. Therewas a 
group called Families with Children from China, and I helped 
organize that early on. We had lots of single moms and lesbians 
that had kids from China.  
 After my experience, the adoption agency in McMinnville, called 
PLAN, start having single women sign affidavits that they weren't 
homosexual. And I was just glad that was never a choice for me, or 
something I was made to do, because I don't know if I could have 
done it. And I know handfuls of women that signed those papers. 
And they have beautiful babies and have created a family.  
 Yeah, I had lots of support. One of my daughter's best friends had 
come home from China two weeks before her, here to Eugene, and 
it was a professor at the university, and she had just moved and 
started a job teaching here, so nobody really knew her. And 
everywhere I went, baby stores and Peralandra, they'd say, "Oh, 
this other woman was in here with her baby from China. You have 
to meet her." And so I was leaving my name all around. It was 
before the Internet; we didn't have ways to connect.  
 And finally— I can't even remember who— Somebody knew 
somebody who knew Polly, and we got together, and our kids were  
best friends until they moved away. She went back to Boston when  
the kids were eight. But yeah, we were at their house or they were 
at our house. We did family vacations, we did everything together. 
And that was kind of like having a relationship, but we weren't 
lovers. But we were family, definitely. Chinese New Year and 
birthdays and camping. You know. That was wonderful. And 
Liane  and Lili are still in touch. I don't know that they're really 
good friends, but they're still in touch. And they lived in our 
neighborhood, and it just was a really nice way to— have the kids 
grow up.  
Raiskin:  How did you find entering the schools as a lesbian mother?  
Lucas:  Well, first off, when I looked for daycare, I found— I was at the 
International Women's Day Celebration in 1993. I'm not sure where 
it was. March eighth. And there was a woman there, and 
everybody would see me with this Chinese baby, and they'd want 
to know where she came from, and "Oh, I heard about your baby." 
And there was a Chinese woman there with her baby, and she said 
she knew a couple that had just come from China, that their 
daughter was a student at the U of O, and that maybe they would 
do childcare. I really wanted her to continue to be in a Chinese 
environment, so I got their number. You know, you call them, and 
they didn't speak English, but their daughter did, so we went— 
they  lived six blocks from us. Three hundred dollars  a month, they 
took care of Liane  from 8:30 in the morning until 4:00.   
 They didn't speak any English. Her first words were in Chinese. 
They never put her down. They held her all the time. They didn't 
have the heat on in their house. Totally typical Chinese house. 
Everything came from garage sales. Nothing on the walls, except 
maybe one little picture. You know, always had hot tea on. And I'd 
knock on the door and hand her over and say, "Have a good day. I 
love you," and they never called me during the day. I couldn't 
really call them. And she was loved and cherished. And after a 
year, they moved away, and so I had to find someplace  else.  
 I was interviewing daycare places, and the first thing I would say 
is, "I'm a lesbian." You have to be okay with that. And you know, 
some people were taken aback, but the EWEB  Child Development 
Center is where she landed, and it was a wonderful place. So from 
eighteen  months through her kindergarten year, she went there 
every day. And she wasn't the only kid that had lesbian moms. She 
had lesbian caregivers, and they were very supportive about 
talking about one mom or two moms or different kinds of families, 
so that worked out. That was a good place.  
 I wanted her— of course, we all think our children are the most 
special and the most bright, so I wanted her to go to a school where 
she'd be academically challenged. She was a busy toddler, and I 
couldn't see her sitting in a desk in a first grade classroom with one 
teacher all day long. I just knew that that would be hard for her, so 
Eastside was where we chose. I had helped to parent Kendra 
Morrigan 's daughter McKenna. She was at my house one and two  
nights a week during the school year, and  oftentimes for extended 
weeks during the summer. And McKenna had gone to Eastside, 
and it was  a wonderful school for her. McKenna was ten when 
Liane  came home to us, so she was the big sister. And they are 
indeed sisters. They see each other several times a week. They have,  
between the two of them, three little girls. Lyla  is in the middle of 
McKenna's two girls. They have forged a family relationship, and 
it's what I wanted for both of them, because they  were both only 
kids. That's pretty  special.  
Long:  Did your daughter— was she able to continue to speak Chinese?  
Lucas:  No. She— there  was a Chinese school in town on Sunday 
afternoons, and she went to Chinese school for two years. She was 
the only kid that wasn't— well, Lili went too, but  her mom didn't 
insist on her going quite like I insisted on Liane  going. Liane  was 
really good at picking up and learning Chinese and writing 
Chinese. She was the only kid who wasn't living in a Chinese-born 
family, with Chinese parents, so she didn't have the discipline; she 
didn't have the— fear, I guess. I'd stand outside the classroom 
doors and I'd hear, "Liane , sit down. Liane, pay attention. Liane, 
look here." Because she was flitting around.  
 After two years, we came to an agreement that it  just probably 
wasn't a good fit. And this was when she was four and five, which 
is really a good age to acquire another language, and she did 
amazing. She would come home and sing songs and say things and 
count. I mean, she had heard it, so it came back. But she hated it.  
She felt like she was different in some respects, and she was the 
only one whose Caucasian mother came to pick her up. And we 
were kind of, you know— mostly, the Chinese community was 
accepting, but I think it kind of cast a dark shadow on the whole 
one-child policy in China, so it was a reminder to them of— 
Raiskin:  Why the girls were in the orphanage to begin with.  
Lucas:  Yeah. Throw away children. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And was the elementary school experience a good one?  
Lucas:  It was, for the most part. Yeah. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Were you out to teachers?  
Lucas:  Oh, yeah. Totally. I started— When Liane  was ten months old, I 
met my current partner, Mary. And Mary was also a high school 
teacher, and she really wasn't into kids. Didn't think she was. After 
six months of dating, I said to her, "You know, I've got this baby, 
and if we're going to continue dating, I need to know whether 
you're in for the long haul or not." And she said, "Yeah, I think 
maybe we can move in when she's two." We each had  a house in 
separate sections of Eugene. And we had real similar backgrounds. 
We liked to do a lot of the same things. She just was kind of like, 
"Whoa, a kid." And we met at a two-step dance at Condon School. 
Harriet Rubin was our Yenta. She introduced us. Because of course, 
we would have so much in common because we were both school 
teachers.   
 We dated across town for nine years, and then 9/11 happened. And 
I had always been saying, "Let's move in together," and Mary lived 
on a really busy street and I lived in a little teeny, tiny house. And 
when 9/11 happened, I said, "You know, we either need to solidify 
our family or change our— it's just too hard to do this across town."  
Raiskin:  What was the effect of 9/11 on that decision?  
Lucas:  Well, just that we could not be here tomorrow, or our world could 
blow up, or who knows. Kind of what's happening now, might  
happen. Who knows. We had what's called a family joining 
ceremony up the river with eleven  of our most treasured friends. 
And we exchanged vows; we became family. Mary took Liane  in. 
You know, we made a commitment to each other. And then when 
we got back from that little adventure, we put our houses on the 
market and sold our houses and bought a house together. And the 
week we  moved into our house, Liane  turned ten. And since Mary 
had been a high school teacher, she was wonderful with teenagers. 
Just give me a baby any day; I'm not so good with teenagers. She 
kind of became the go-to mom with the homework and the— I was 
the driver, but Mary was more of the emotional support.  
 And then Liane  went to South Eugene High School and graduated, 
and she was a wonderful student. And she ran the daycare center 
on campus, and she was on the debate team and involved in 
student government. She went to the University of Puget Sound, 
and then now she has her own family and is a mom. We get to be 
grandmas to this wonderful little girl.   
Long:  Is she in Eugene?  
Lucas:  She was in Eugene, and now she's in the Seattle area. So. And that's 
where McKenna is also, so she's got extended family up there. It's 
really fun being a grandma, but it's exhausting, also.  
Raiskin:  You want to tell us about the full moon circles that you did?  
Lucas:  Oh, yeah. After I left that relationship in the '80s after eight years 
and I'd been involved at MCC, I wanted some kind of spiritual 
touchstone, and because I had known McKenna's mom, who was 
involved in witchy stuff in Eugene, I got to know gani and kaseja— 
I'm trying to think of who else— Jennifer Horton— Lor— Laura 
Philips, Sally and Enid— and we started— Mostly it was kaseja  and 
gani, started this full moon circle.  
 They brought thirteen  women together every month on the full 
moon. We sang songs,  we called the four directions, we supported 
each other. It was very grounding, very affirming of who was are, 
where we were, and the kind of life we were choosing. We watched 
people have kids, coming and going. After about maybe five or six 
years, people started— some people adopted; some people had 
kids; some people moved away; some people had partners that 
weren't into it. Some people brought their partners in and then they 
broke up, so they left. The dynamics of the circle changed, and I am 
the only original member.  
 The circle still meets. We meet about four times a year: Barb Ryan, 
Lynn  Marx, and Chris Staight, and I. And we've all watched each  
other's families— kids grow up, get married; adoptions happen; 
babies happen, grandkids. Now we're all grandparents. It's so, so 
interesting and fun. And supportive. I mean, we've seen 
relationships come and go. We still go to the beach about once a 
year for a weekend and check in. That's really important to me, that 
that continuity keeps going. Yeah.  
Raiskin: Do you remember over the years at different— because you've been 
here a long time— where there were different conflicts in the 
lesbian community, around differences or different ideals?  
Lucas:  I think— since  I've been with Mary these twenty-five years, I have 
been more on the periphery. Before that, I think I was much more 
involved in the politics of it. And when you're raising a kid, you 
just— it kind of shifted my whole perspective.  I think now with the 
transgender stuff, that's huge. I don't— yeah, I don't know. Yeah, 
certainly not in the school district. Once I came out, I felt like I  had 
tons of support.  
Long:  Are you still teaching?  
Lucas:  I retired eight years ago. I was one of these lucky ones, you know, 
got my master’s  degree when I was twenty-two and started 
teaching, and I didn't have a clue what PERS was. And I really— 
you know, it was— 
Raiskin: The retirement system.   
Lucas:  It seemed so far off. And I was lucky enough that I was born into a 
family that valued education and encouraged that, and I got a 
college degree thanks to my parents, and my master’s  degree, and 
here I am. You know?  
Long:  So when you started teaching in the 4J school district, you really 
weren't quite aware of the value of PERS? Is that what you're 
saying?  
Lucas:  No, I just knew I wanted to work with kids and have my own 
classroom, and there— the finest people in the world are teachers. 
They really are the salt of the earth, and I always had wonderful, 
wonderful coworkers. And that's the thing I miss the most about 
being retired, is I don't have a group I'm checking in with very day. 
You know, you used to know about everybody's family and life 
and what was going on, so. Yeah, it was a wonderful— I felt like I 
got to give back, I got a lot of— I learned so much, and it was a 
wonderful profession.  
Long:  So you're relatively young to be retired, then.  
Lucas:  Sixty-two. I just turned sixty-two.  
Long:  Right. 
Lucas:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What have you been doing in retirement?   
Lucas:  Oh, goodness. I have been— well, it took me a while to find my 
place. I've always been a busy person, so finding things to fill my 
time is not hard. But in the last five years or so I've been 
volunteering for an organization called Days for Girls. And we 
make sustainable menstrual hygiene kits for girls in third world 
countries so they can go to school when they have their periods. 
Because girls in India and China and Africa are often shamed and 
have— they  don't have anything to use, so they sit and bleed on 
cardboard, or use moss or leaves or grass or mud or whatever they 
can find. And have infections. This organization has a chapter in 
Eugene, and I started sewing and volunteering with them.  
 Then I found out about a humanitarian group from Lane County 
that does medical missions in Haiti, and in April I went to Haiti for 
ten days and was a representative of Days for Girls. We gave 
presentations to 400 women and children about reproduction and 
anatomy and pregnancy and how their bodies work and what 
happens when you're  menstruating and how you get pregnant and 
all that stuff, and handed out these beautiful kits to these girls and 
women so they could stay in school and hopefully have better 
hygiene. It was pretty rewarding. And now I'm working on going 
go India in December. It gives me a focus. I get to sew at home, I 
get to connect with other women that are doing the same things, 
and I get to travel, so it's a win/win for everybody.  
 I also am a CASA, which is a Court Appointed Special Advocate 
for kids in foster care. It was a nine week class I had to take. Pretty  
intense. You have to write court reports; you are the eyes and ears 
of the judge. I have two foster babies that I visit a couple times a 
month in their foster home and visitations with their bio mom. You 
know, talking to attorneys, working with adoption committees, 
social workers, making sure kids are getting what they need. It's 
intense. Sometimes it's really hard, because you get to know the ins 
and outs of the social welfare system and what works and what 
doesn't work so well. That's been challenging.  
 I started a neighborhood watch group in our block. We got some 
signs up, we have a little email list for when people want to report 
things to other people. And I'm also doing a volunteer job at the 
hospital called No One Dies Alone. I've been with three family 
members that have died, and it just felt like a gift I could give. You 
do a little training, and you get on a list, and when somebody's in 
the hospital and has nobody else to be there with them, they put  
out an all call and start a vigil, and if you have time you go and 
hang out and sit and just be a presence  in the  room with somebody. 
That happens maybe once a month.  Pretty emotional, heavy duty 
things I'm doing, but— it's what I can do.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any thoughts about what aging as a lesbian will look 
like for you?  
Lucas:  Yeah. It's— it’s hard to experience my body being pain. I have 
osteoarthritis, so my back hurts. I still want to do things. I'm a 
builder and a carpenter and a gardener,  and I still do things, and 
then I hurt. Oh, well. I'd rather be busy and create things than not.  
Mary and I have thought about— having all of our parents age and 
need extra care, and then having helped them and be with them 
when they died, really makes  you think about, "Okay, what's going 
to happen with us?"  
 We have a daughter. You know, I don't know if she's going to be 
around to do what we did. We have a really big house, and we are 
pretty sure we can stay in our house, because we have enough 
finances, and then maybe we can hire people or students or 
younger lesbian or queer, gender neutral, fluid, whatever they are, 
people to live upstairs and take care of us. We're not sure. Having 
seen both of our moms being in some kind of care facilities, I don't 
think we want to do that.  
Raiskin:  Would you worry about being in a care facility as a lesbian?  
Lucas:  No. I don't think at that point in my life it would matter.  
Raiskin:  But if you imagine hire somebody, you're imagining a queer 
person.  
Lucas:  Yeah. Yeah. Because it's our home.  Maybe. I mean, you never 
know.  We've also talked about, if it gets bad enough and our lives 
are— if we're suffering, that we might talk about suicide. Just 
because— Peg Morton was a lesbian in town who had a couple  
rounds of an illness and decided she had lived long enough and 
used up her resources and stopped eating. I don't think I could stop 
eating, but I just think I do understand about using up resources 
and just getting to a place in your life where you're done. You  
know, that's years away, but I think it just kind of needs to be an 
option, at least for us.  I don't want to be a burden.  We'll see.  
 Right now, you know, I struggle with pain every day. I've got 
plenty to keep me busy and make my life meaningful. I feel like I've 
got lots to give back. That feels really good.  
Long:  When you look back at your life, what would you consider as the 
greatest joy?  
Lucas:  Hmm. Oh. The greatest— well, it has to be, and I'm sure most 
people say this, my kid. The greatest joy and also source of huge 
pain, as they grow up and change. But that, I feel like that was— 
especially because it was adoption and I worked so hard to bring a 
baby home from somewhere in this world, and I was so ready. And 
it kept happening and not happening and happening and not 
happening. She was a wonderful. A wonderful gift. And the best 
teacher, and the purest joy.  
Raiskin:  Thank you very much.  
Lucas:  Thank you.  
Long:  Thank you.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  