 
Pyburn:  Here it goes.  
Long:  Here we go.  
Pyburn:  Your sound, do you need a sound check?  
Raiskin:  We did that.  
Pyburn:  Gotcha.  
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Gail Pyburn on August 21, 2018 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO  
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Gail, please let us know if you agree 
to be recorded for this project, and that you give your permission 
for the University to preserve and make available your recorded 
and transcribed interview.  
Pyburn:  I do give you my permission.  
Long:  Great, thank you. Well, why don't we begin with a basic question. 
Can you please tell us where you were born, where you grew up, 
and something about your early background?  
Pyburn:  All right. I was born in Albany, Oregon, right up the road from 
here in 1953. I was raised Catholic. I went to Catholic school in 
Albany, and I lived there— I was born and raised there, so I lived 
there until I moved out and got married at the age eighteen, right 
out of high school. I married my high school sweetheart. I had one 
child, a daughter, and was married for seven years. Until I met a 
woman, who became a good friend of mine, and I absolutely fell in 
love with her. This kind of coincided with my husband and I 
thinking we were going to— I was thinking I was going to divorce 
him. He was an alcoholic, and so that made life pretty hard. I grew 
up— my parents didn't drink. I didn't even know people had 
problems with alcohol. I was so naïve, I guess. I was really thinking 
of divorcing him because I didn't want to live that life and bring my 
child up in that life.   
 This coincided with me meeting this woman and falling in love 
with her. She provided that emotional support and all that, and so I 
did divorce him. Because Albany's such a small, conservative town, 
it was hard to be gay. For both of us, it was our first time being 
with a woman. We decided after a few months of intense hiding to 
move to Eugene because it was so progressive here.  
Long:  What year was that, Gail?  
Pyburn:  That was 1978. We moved down here, got an apartment. I got a job. 
I think my first job here was working at a one-hour photo place. 
They had these, they're called KIS, K-I-S machines that were the 
advanced technology of the time for printing quickly color 
photographs. So I worked in one of those for a few months, then 
worked in another one for a few months. When I was first divorced 
and still living in Albany, I went to work for this woman who 
owned her own photography studio. I was so impressed with her. 
She was a couple years younger than me, but she already had her 
studio for a number of years. Just still fresh in the divorce, I invited 
her out  for dinner. I said, "Look, I would love to learn everything I 
can about photography." I happened to have thirteen  years’ 
experience with a Pocket Instamatic, which my grandma had given 
me as a child. That was my first camera.  
 When I told her that I had these thirteen  years’ experience with a 
Pocket Instamatic, she laughed and she was like, "Well, all right. I'll 
give you a job." So she gave me a job at her  studio, and I learned the 
darkroom and portraiture and retouching photographs, which they  
don't really do these days except digitally. That was the beginning 
of my photography career in Albany, and then carried it on down 
here in Eugene. After working at the two little instant photo shops, 
I decided to just go on my own and be an independent contractor 
and become a freelance photographer. That was kind of the start of 
it. 
Long:  I was going to ask if you could describe what Eugene was like in 
1978.  
Pyburn:  Oh, man. Eugene was like heaven to me. It was such a beautiful 
town and so rich with cultural activities. The university here of 
course was just a magnet for people from all over the world, and so 
at least half of them were women, and so that really thrilled me to 
no end. We had great little restaurants. We had the Excelsior Café, 
which was a  wonderful place down, right on Thirteenth,  I think, 
right at the edge of the campus. A friend of mine happened to work 
for Garbagio's  at that time.  
Raiskin:  What was Garbagio's?  
Pyburn:  Garbagio's was a company that was on the literal cutting edge of 
recycling. They had a big, huge truck with all these bins in it, and 
they would come and collect your glass and your plastic and your 
paper and your newspaper, everything. They were the only 
company doing it. Everybody else was just throwing everything in 
the trash. It was a pretty cool company. That ran for a number of  
years, and tragically they had a fire at their warehouse. It burnt the 
warehouse and the trucks, and so they just ended their business.  
Raiskin:  Did a lot of lesbians work for— 
Pyburn:  A couple of them did, a couple friends of mine worked for them. It 
was a very close-knit community somehow. You'd meet one 
person, and then they knew three other people, and then they knew 
ten more. So before you knew it, you were in the lesbian 
community, which was fantastic because coming from such a small 
town, I didn't even know there was others around.  
Raiskin:  What were your feelings about coming out? You lived in a 
conservative town with a conservative family.  
Pyburn:  Well, for me, being raised Catholic— I went to Catholic school for 
eight years, and public school. You could always tell the Catholic 
kids because they were the wildest because they were suddenly 
free. It was hard. I mean, that's why I had to move because being 
gay there was just unheard of. I didn't know any gay people 
growing up. I think my bus driver when I was a kid was a dyke. 
She had her cigarettes rolled up in her sleeve and her hair all 
slicked back, and it's like, "Ooh, something about her." But, it was 
hard. I lived kind of a double life. I came from this marriage, and I 
was the first in my family to marry and have a child.  
 Then getting a divorce was tough enough, but then to realize 
suddenly, "Oh, my God. I am also lesbian." This was a big part of 
my divorcing, was because I love women. I literally had to move  
because I couldn't take that pressure of hiding my true self and 
talking about my girlfriends like, "Hey," whatever. It was a lot of, 
"How's the weather," and, "My car's running great." I mean, 
anything but me. It was  very hard, and I really felt— that’s  why 
Eugene was such a heaven because it was like, "Wow, I can just be." 
We could hold hands, we could kiss, we could whatever, and just 
be ourselves and not have to hide.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any negative feelings about lesbians or 
homosexuality yourself given your upbringing?  
Pyburn:  I think I was curious. I think I knew I was gay from a young age. I 
mean, I loved Sister Christine, my first grade teacher. She was 
beautiful, even though I could just see this much of her. I fell in 
love with her. So yeah, it was— 
 I forgot the question. You'll have to ask it— 
Raiskin:  Just if you had negative internalized feelings.  
Pyburn:  Well, yeah. Being raised Catholic, of course homosexuality was just 
the last thing you wanted to be. There was a lot of internal turmoil 
kind of constantly, and even more so any time I was around my 
family, my mom  in particular. She was raised strictly Catholic. I 
don't think my dad really cared one way or the other. When I did 
finally come out, my dad was like, "Yeah, I knew that since you 
were— I've known it." He was just cool that way. My mom, I think 
one of the first things she did was went to a psychiatrist to find out 
what she had done wrong. So there was that pressure to be the  
nice, Catholic girl, and then what do I do with my lesbian self? So 
that became the only option, was to, "Well, we just have to move so 
we can be ourselves," and then we can  do the double life anytime 
I'd go visit and be like, "Oh, yeah. The weather's great." It was 
weird.  
Raiskin:  Where were you living when you came to Eugene?  
Pyburn:  I first lived in these apartments over off Norkenzie and 
Goodpasture Road, somewhere off there. I lived there for about a 
year, and just getting used to Eugene and getting familiar with 
everything. We used to go to the Fifth  Street Market. There was a 
great, little— one of the first coffee shops, if you will. It was just 
kind of open in the building of the old Fifth  Street Market. You'd go 
there and hang out and cruise chicks. It was like, "Yeah. Oh, my. 
Look— Ooh." There was a lot of that. You had those freedoms, 
where you could just go and meet people and it was okay. It wasn't 
like, "Oh, I got to go to church now." So, yeah, it was— 
Raiskin:  Were there other places that you met lesbians in the community?  
Pyburn:  Let's see. Gosh, what was it called? There was a VW repair shop. It 
was a clever little name. I can't remember it, but it was all lesbians, 
and so that was a great resource. I happened to have a Volkswagen, 
so that was helpful. Going in there, instead of men in their little, 
greasy outfits, there were dykes with short hair and their cigarettes 
in the sleeve, the whole nine yards. I  was just like, "Oh, man. Can 
you fix my car? You're making me so happy just that you're here."  
Garbagio’s, the VW place, Fifth  Street Market, the Excelsior Café, 
the Riv Room of course was a huge, huge place. There was another 
gay bar up in the Eugene Hotel. I don't know if it's still there, but it 
was on the second floor. When you're looking at the river side of 
the hotel, you can see there's a couple floors, and then it's kind of 
set back a bit. That was where the dance room was. It had a little 
bar and just a big dance room.  
 Places like that were just a godsend to be able to go there and dance 
with your girlfriend. Oh, my God, how fabulous. That was good 
fun. I mean, for me it wasn't really about the drinking so much as it 
was just the dancing and meeting all these women, and just every 
variation of women from strictly, totally feminine to just the 
butchy, dykes that had their boots on and their hair greased back, 
just typical looks that people would think that's a typical lesbian. 
But in fact, they ran the gamut.  
Raiskin:  How did you identify?  
Pyburn:  I think I was pretty androgynous  because I was still trying to 
maintain for my family that I wasn't overtly a dyke. I could still 
pass as a straight women for their comfort. I suppose that was my 
upbringing to, wanting to have other people be comfortable and 
not make them uncomfortable with my lesbianism. I was always 
aware of that. Again, that's why Eugene was so wonderful because 
I didn't have to do that. I could just be me. But I felt very 
androgynous , even though I worked in what were termed 
nontraditional jobs. Driving truck was the first one.   
 Just to back up a little bit, when I got divorced,  I got a thousand for 
a car. I bought this old Mercedes from this woman that was leaving 
town, and she was a lesbian also. With the car came the mechanic, 
and so the mechanic was this guy out in Springfield. I took my car 
to him to get something fixed, and he had these big trucks. The 
guys back then, they were making thirteen, fourteen dollars an 
hour, which was a fortune. I think the minimum wage at that time 
was like $1.05 maybe. It was just pathetic. So I spied those trucks, 
and I talked to the guy a little bit. He's like, "Yeah, my guys do 
construction and we build roads," and whatever. I was like, "Wow, 
that's really cool. I'd really love to do that. Would you give me a 
job?" He kind of laughed at me at first, but I persisted. I just stayed 
on him. I'd call him every week and say, "Hey, Fred. Do you have 
any openings yet?" Eventually, he gave me a job and trained me on 
the job. It was 99  percent  men, and me.  
Raiskin:  What was that like?  
Pyburn:  It was a trip. I mean, here's a shot of me in one of the  trucks. It was 
a ten wheel dump truck, and it was such a blast driving truck. I just 
loved it.  
Long:  Did you drive trucks just around the area, or did you do long-
distance driving?  
Pyburn:  Well, with Fred I did on-site construction. So my first job was over 
in Lincoln City building a water sewage treatment plant. So we 
basically excavated all the pits for the big tanks. My first job was  
pretty interesting because it was, again, me, the only woman, and 
two of his drivers. He pulled over a little camp trailer, and we 
stayed in the camp trailer, the three of us in a little camp trailer. 
That was really interesting. Being raised Catholic again, always 
came back to haunt me because I was always nice. I was raised to 
be nice, so I didn't put up a fuss. I didn't like it, but I didn't put up a 
fuss about sharing this big of a space with two guys.  
Raiskin:  How did they treat you?  
Pyburn:  One guy was very nice. He was cool. He knew I was a dyke. I 
mean, they all did, but they tried to act like they didn't just so they 
could bother me. The other guy was a real ass. For example, 
making these pits, we'd drive around. Literally, go up here, get 
loaded, drive down here, dump it, go up here, all day. I mean, 
seventy, eighty  trips a day. We'd inevitably pass each other. This 
one time, he stopped me and he's like, "Hey, Gail. Would you help 
a guy out if he needed help? Would you be there for him?" I'm like, 
"Yeah, I guess. Why?" He goes, "Well, I just  wanted to know if you 
would." I was like, "Yeah." He goes, "So do you give head?" I was 
like— So that kind of thing went on, and my heart would just drop. 
It was like, "Really? God."  
 Putting up with that kind of behavior really strengthened me. It 
was a very painful strength to gain, but nevertheless I learned to 
anticipate their little antics. I would never give in. I would never let 
it show that they were shattering me. I would just stiff upper lip 
and carry on, and just like, "Fuck you" kind of thing.  
Long:  How long did you do that job?  
Pyburn:  I did that job for about a year. We did the Lincoln City place, and 
then went down to Shady Cove and did— they were putting in a 
new water system down there. Again, we stayed in the camp 
trailer, the famous camp trailer. Then, I did a job. Mount St. Helens 
had exploded. So because my boss was a minority contractor, he 
got 10  percent  of that federal contract, but he could only hire 
women drivers as minorities for that job. I got to work on the 
Mount St. Helens cleanup where we excavated all the silt out of the 
rivers. We literally built a road down the river, just big loads of 
rock. The guy would spread it out and make a road down the 
middle, and then they'd excavate one side, and then excavate the 
other side. So those were three jobs that I did with Fred. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Were you attracted to the separatist organizations, or was it was 
just women, not dealing with the men at all?  
Pyburn:  I wasn't. That wasn't in my nature to be excluding of anyone. I 
thought it was fascinating that people had those extreme ideas. One 
of my girlfriends over time in Eugene, she came from a hardcore 
separatist relationship before me. She had all these ideas, and I was 
like, "Oh, my. Wow." She would do this thing where she'd put her 
finger and she'd go whack, like whack their pee-pee off. I was like, 
"Oh, my God." It was like she was twelve. She couldn't bear men. 
At every turn she could, she would give it right back to them. I 
found it interesting, but it wasn't my way. I have three brothers and 
an awesome dad, and so, yeah. I was exposed to it, but it wasn't  
how I felt. Yeah. I mean, I could be mean to guys if they were mean 
to me if I needed to, but most of the time I just would be gone and 
move on.  
Long:  When you came to Eugene in '78, that was the time when there was 
what was called Referendum 51. Do you recall any of the political 
action against that?  
Pyburn:  What the measure about?  
Long:  There was a provision in the city code of government that stated 
that there would be no discrimination against LGBT people. Then 
there was a referendum to get rid of that, and that was called 
Referendum 51.  
Pyburn:  I don't remember it specifically, yeah. I was too involved in my 
work, and I was gone a lot from town. I wasn't particularly political 
back then, although I do remember when Geraldine Ferraro was 
running for president. She had a gathering down here, I think by 
the courthouse, and went to that. I think that was the start of my 
becoming aware. Also, I had attended Lane Community College 
and took a women's studies course, which blew my mind. I didn't 
know that we even had a history. Kate Barry was the instructor, 
and she was fabulous, a British woman, so the accent just always 
slays me. I think I was one of many that were secretly in love with 
her. Didn't know if she was a lesbian or not, but that didn't matter. 
If you just admire someone, you just go for it in my book. At that 
time, that's when my eyes became open to the whole world of how  
politics works and how women's rights were so denied for so long, 
and now just beginning the struggle to gain  some rights.  
Raiskin:  What were you taking classes at Lane for?  
Pyburn:  I had been injured driving truck for Starflower, and so I went to 
college. A friend of mine said, "Hey, you should check this out," 
and had a catalog of all the classes. I was like, "Hey, that's cool." I 
hadn't thought of college before that because I had gotten married 
right out of high school, so I was like, "Wow, this seems cool." I 
decided I wanted to be a private investigator, so I got the grant 
monies all set up and everything. The day I went to register, they 
had dropped the— no, I wanted to be a legal aid. So when I went to 
register, they had dropped  that program for that year. I decided, 
okay, well, I've always wanted to be a private eye so I'll take 
criminal justice. Perfect. I did that. I was only in college for that one 
year, and then a friend of mine died, and my whole world was 
shattered. I dropped out of college and lost my financial aid and 
went back to work. So yeah, that was a very interesting 
progression, kind of a turn of events that I hadn't anticipated.  
Raiskin:  Do you want to tell us about Starflower?  
Pyburn:  Okay. Sorry.  
 So, let's see. I had been working different jobs. I worked as a dinner 
chef at Mazzi's Restaurant. I worked as a hostess at Beiderbecke’s  
Restaurant. One day, I was going to the Fifth  Street Market and I 
walked by this beautiful woman standing by this box truck. The  
gate was down, and there was food stuff in there. She was just 
standing there, and I had already been driving truck with Fred for a 
while so I saw her and I said, "Hey, nice truck." She's like, "Oh, 
thank you." I was like, "Do you drive?" She goes, "No, no, no. My 
friend drives. She's inside delivering." I was like, "Oh, okay. Cool." I 
said, "Can I look at it?" She goes, "Yeah, okay." I looked inside, and 
I saw it was a ten speed and just kind of checked it out. She's like, 
"Why? Do you drive?" I said, "Yeah, I drive construction dump 
truck." She's like, "Really? Well, we're looking for drivers. Do you 
want to come for an interview?" I was like, "Yeah, sure. That 
sounds great."  
 So she set up this interview for me. At the time, I was dating this 
woman that had this sweet, little MG sports car. She had spent the 
night, and my interview was at nine in the morning the next day. 
So she's like, "Just take my car." I took her car. I stopped at Fifth  
Street, got my little coffee, my latte to go, and show up at 
Starflower. I've got my Marlboro's and my coffee and the little MG 
sitting beside me, parked, and  they're all like, "Oh, my." I did the 
interview, and I was like, "Yeah, I've driven long haul  and driven 
construction, so I can do a thirteen  speed." This one truck was what 
they call a five and four speed, and so it was two sticks, a main box, 
one, two, three, four, and reverse, and then a second auxiliary box. 
So, you'd put it in first, and then one, two, three, four. Then second, 
one, two, three, four. It was a mean machine.   
 Anyway, I got off the topic, but I had that experience going into 
Starflower. So they all loved it. They were like, "Okay, well, you are 
totally hired." Apparently they had a little, I don't know what, to 
see who got to take me on the first run. A friend of mine, Tina, won 
the chance to show me the ropes in Starflower, and that was my 
first Bay run. I think that was July 1980, and I was stoked. I mean,  
here it's a women-owned  company. There was a couple guys 
initially in that company, but for the most part it was women. We 
pulled a forty  foot reefer unit down to San Francisco, all around 
San Francisco in town, Oakland. Then came back up, stopped in 
Chico. All these companies, Hansen Foods, and gosh, I can’t 
remember them all. Of course, we hauled Nancy's Yogurt all over 
wherever we went.  
 But it was awesome because they had food buying groups, so we'd 
stop at little, teeny tiny communities and natural food stores.  
 Sorry I'm  talking so much.  
 It was just awesome because they were competing with the big 
boys. There was another company, which I can't remember the— It 
was a big corporation that were constantly working on squeezing 
Starflower out because they had more money. They  had more 
everything. This was a pretty funky little company that was 
scrambling to keep up with the world, and they did a great job.  
But I met some really awesome women there. A friend of mine— 
well, I made many friends, but we did a Portland run after I  had  
been injured. My friend, Flaxen, she was one of the drivers. My 
other friend, Kate Elliott, she was one of the drivers. It was just 
good fun. Here's Flaxen  in the trailer, Kate and Flaxen. Because I 
had been injured, I couldn't actually work. I just went along for the 
ride on this Portland run.  
 It was good fun because everywhere we went people were 
impressed. First, they'd do a double take. It's like, "What the— 
Women coming out of this truck?" We're pushing hand trucks full 
of food, and carrying big fifty pound bags on our shoulders. It was 
just like, "Yeah, where do you want this?" So it was great, I mean 
just to be able to operate in that environment. It was almost a 
novelty I suppose, where it was women drivers being seen as able 
to do the job.  It's like, "Yeah, we can do anything."  
Raiskin:  How many women were involved with Starflower when you were 
there?  
Pyburn:  Oh, God. I think there was probably about forty  to fifty maybe, and 
I was what they call a contract worker. I wasn't employed by them 
per se, I just worked on contracts. That was all the paper shuffle. 
My friend, Judy Goldstein, was a big part of that paper shuffling. 
But I think there was about eight or nine drivers, and they had the 
Portland run, which was a two day run. Because when they said 
Portland, you'd do all the little, teeny towns in between Eugene 
and Portland, and then come back down another route, like 
through Estacada and Mount Angel and all these little communities 
with either their stores or their food buying clubs. We had a Seattle  
run, same thing, all the little, teeny tiny towns. We had a coast run. 
We had a Boise, Idaho run.  
 Then the big one was the Bay run to San Francisco, and that one  
was the coolest because you got to spend the night in San 
Francisco. There'd be the football games over in Candlestick Park, 
was it? We'd stay downtown in the Castro District at some hotel. It 
was just walk to Hamburger Mary's in the morning and have 
breakfast and read the San Francisco Chronicle, just all these little 
tidbits of fabulousness that was the life of the trucker in Starflower. 
Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And what was it— 
Long:  Well, I was just going to ask can you describe the product that 
Starflower distributed?  
Pyburn:  Sure. It was Starflower Natural Foods and Botanicals, so they not 
only had rice and grains and cheeses and yogurts and Nancy's 
Yogurt of course and juice from Hansen's. All these companies 
were relatively new as far as I know. Then, they had their 
botanicals where they would have different teas and herbs and 
such. They had different departments in the warehouse where 
some women were in charge of the botanicals only. They would 
weigh them out and package them. Then, others would take the 
purchase orders, would write out the orders and give them to the 
warehouse, and they'd run around on their little Hyster  and set  
everything on a pallet and make that order for the Portland run, 
and this order's for the bay run.  
 It was really quite cool how they operated literally because they 
had it wired where food groups would call in their order for the 
next week, and then they'd start to pallet it a couple days before the 
run, and then load the truck, and then we'd come in— Like on the 
Bay run, I think we left at 4:00AM on the morning of. So, it was 
early rising and driving eight to ten hours a day because we had 
two people on those runs. By law, you were only supposed to drive 
eight hours a day. Because we had two, we could say, "Well, one's 
in the passenger seat or in the sleeper." We had log books where we 
had to meticulously mark down our time and what we were doing, 
if we were at a meal or if we were in the sleeper or what have you.  
Raiskin:  What was the atmosphere like? I can't imagine  what it was like in 
the warehouse or the relationships between people.  
Pyburn:  It was pretty interesting because they were very, very busy. There 
was a reception desk and big boards with everybody's order, very 
busy, a couple people up there taking the orders. Then in the back 
rooms were the sales department and the purchasers, and they 
were all doing their thing. Then out in the warehouse, because it 
was a big, open warehouse, that was where the fun was because 
they were— the purchasers and all those, they were able to wear 
nice clothes and be clean and tidy and look nice. In the warehouse, 
they wore sweatshirts and sometimes stocking hats and gloves 
depending on if they're working in the freezer doing the cheese  
orders. But there was always— there’s  music going and people 
laughing and talking about, "Oh, she's going out with her. Oh, she 
wants to date her, but oh, my." All this lesbian drama going on 
constantly.  
 Well, I participated, but I didn't have to follow their rules. I just 
came in and drove, and then I'd turn in my log sheet and leave. So I 
didn't have to deal with their politics. They had group meetings. I 
think that's what they called them, where all the departments 
would get together. They would have crit. They would write 
criticisms of one another if need be. It's like, "Well, she never shuts 
the freezer door properly on the cheese freezer." It's like, "Well, if 
she can't do that, then we're going to have to get somebody else." It 
was just all this drama. It was like, "Oh, my goodness. Just shut the 
door."  
 It was really exciting. At one point, each year they'd have an annual 
party for all the departments and get together and have fun food 
and just everyone would do a little skit. Each department would do 
a little skit for entertainment. These three women approached me 
one day. They knew I was a photographer. They said, "Hey, we 
want to do this project for the annual party. Can you help us 
because we want to make a slide show, like a training film?" I was 
like, "Well, okay. Sure, whatever." So we did. The president of the 
company, Margaret Cormier, had this mannequin that was always 
in her office. It was called Betty M., and Betty was kind of famous 
because she was just always there. It was arm up, and she had a  
bathing cap on and a apron. But inevitably, one breast was always 
hanging out.  
 We used this mannequin for this training film, and we took Betty 
M. through all the departments of Starflower, from receptionist to 
purchaser to sales to botanicals to trucker, using Betty as the 
vehicle to just show all the different jobs in Starflower. We did the 
slideshow kind of ass backwards. First, we shot it. We just took 
Betty, and the three of them, they'd place her. I set it up and was 
like, "Okay, well, turn her this way a little bit." We'd have 
something in her hand or whatever, her at the botanicals table, and 
just had a riot shooting it because it was just nonsensical. Then, we 
got together and edited. So we had all these slides, and we kind of 
put them in some semblance  of order. Then we wrote the script, 
and added music at certain points. It was just the most bizarre and 
fun project I've ever worked on because it was just all of us being 
creative just on the spot, just like, "Hey, how  about she does this?" 
 Then we showed that slideshow at the annual party, and people 
just roared because it was not really making fun of anyone, but just 
showing life in the warehouse or life out on the road. We shot Betty 
in the truck with a sign, "For a good time, call Betty." I happened to 
be the voice of Betty, so they chose me to— when we recorded the 
audio for the slideshow, we'd come up with, "Okay, let's have her 
say— Yeah, let's have her say this." So we'd write it down, okay, 
and then we'd record it, the little push-button recorders they had 
back then, and put it all together. It was just painstakingly done. It  
was about a half hour slideshow because we literally would have 
two people. One would follow the script, and then the other one, 
you'd mark it and go, "Okay, change," and they'd change the slide. 
It was just so funky, but it worked. It was adequate enough for 
people to see it and enjoy it.  
 One day, I had come in from a run. Or, I was upstairs getting ready 
for a run, and I had to go down and ask the receptionist something. 
I was like, "Hey, did this order come in for this run?" She was busy 
on the phone and stuff, and I was like, "Yeah, okay." I was talking 
to her, and she's on her little computer. Suddenly she goes, "You're 
Betty M." I was like, "Yeah, okay, I am." It was so hilarious because 
she was just shocked. She was like, "That voice. Oh, you're Betty 
M." 
Raiskin:  That's funny. Did you work for Starflower the whole time it was in 
existence?  
Pyburn:  No, I was only there for— I started in about I want to  say July of 
1980, and then I was injured in August of '81. I did that time, and 
then while I was injured, that's when I went to Lane. Then a couple 
years later, I came back and worked for probably another year. 
Then I  ended up moving to Hawaii. 
Long:  Was Margaret Cormier the founder of Starflower?  
Pyburn:  Yeah, she was the president and co-founder. There was a couple 
people. My friend, Kate, who I showed you, she was also one of the 
originals. She was married at the time. Her and her husband had a  
little farm, and they grew tomatoes and other veggies. I'm not quite 
sure the progression, but she somehow connected with Margaret 
and said, "Hey, I can provide tomatoes," and then they started 
figuring out, okay, how do we deliver these orders? We get these 
restaurants, the ordering. I wasn't there for that progression, but I 
understand that it just kind of— people would join, and before you 
knew it, there was twenty, thirty  people working there.  
Raiskin:  What was the attitude about sexuality at that time?  
Pyburn:  That's an interesting question. I think for myself there was a sense 
of freedom. It's like, this is Eugene. This is open thinking, open 
minds. So, I think everyone there at Starflower anyway were really 
into themselves. I mean, they were fully being themselves. If they 
were a butchy  dyke, by God, they were a butchy dyke. They had 
their boots strapped up and their whatever. If they were a 
feminine, they wore little tutus with their sweatpants while 
working in the warehouse. Just whatever you wanted, and 
likewise, if you were attracted to that butchy girl, it was like, "Well, 
how can I get to date her?" It was kind of a group effort. It was like, 
"Oh, yeah. Gail really likes her. She  wants to go out with her." It 
was kind of a very friendly atmosphere. It wasn't you were 
shunned because you were different. It was like, "Oh, you're 
awesome. Okay, well you might like her." It was really open. 
Again, heaven for me to be in this world of all these women that 
were just being themselves. It was like, "Yeah, I'm gay and I'm 
proud," and whatever.   
Raiskin:  Were people in couples?  
Pyburn:  Oh, yes. I wish you had a board because it was like, okay, here's the 
twenty  players. Then these two get together and these two get 
together, and then they break up, and then they break up, and then 
those two get together and these two go with these two. It was just 
constant, like the pea under the shells. Okay, who's going out with 
her? Oh, no. She's done.  She moved on to her. Oh, okay.  
Long:  It sounds like there were a lot of positives for people to work at 
Starflower, but can you tell us about any conflicts that might have 
happened?  
Pyburn:  Well, for myself there was a conflict. They hired this guy, and he 
was what I irreverently call a “bible beater.” He was just kind of an 
ass and really full of himself for no particular reason, and he would 
always bring his bible on the trucking runs. So it was like, "Oh, 
God. Really?"  
Raiskin:  Why did they hire him?  
Pyburn:  I have no idea. I think it was where you didn't want to 
discriminate. So, if someone applied, you had to consider them, 
and if there's no good reason to not hire them, I think they had to, 
something like that. Again, I wasn't involved in that because I was 
just on the outside, sort of.  
 But, he was a real ass. I had to do a Seattle run with him, and I had 
never done a Seattle run. I had never worked with him for sure, so I  
didn't know what I was doing or where we were going so I had 
rely on him. So we get halfway up to Seattle, and we pull into a 
truck stop, have dinner at this restaurant. I'm like, "Okay, so 
where's the hotel?" He goes, "Oh, well we just stay in the truck 
because we have a early call in the morning." I was like, "Stay in the 
truck?" He goes,  "Yeah. One of us sleeps in the sleeper and then 
other one can sleep in the driver seat." I was like, "Jesus, whatever." 
So again, me being nice, I was just like, "Okay, I guess we're 
sleeping in the truck."  
 So he got the sleeper and I slept in the driver seat. Of course, it was 
a miserable night. I couldn't sleep, and it was just awful. Then wake 
up and you're all stiff, and then we had to work. We go about 
working, and we head back home. After we got home, I mentioned 
to somebody, I was like, "Damn, that really sucks having to sleep in 
the truck." They're like, "What are you talking about?" I'm like, "We 
had to sleep in the truck." They go, "No, he has petty cash for a 
motel." So this guy pocketed the money for the hotel and had us 
sleeping in the truck. So, yeah, that was really fun.  
Long:  How long did he work at Starflower?  
Pyburn:  I don't think very long, yeah. They got rid of him. They had too 
many complaints, and he wasn't that great a driver. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about Soulicious? 
Pyburn:  Okay. While I was working at Starflower and I was injured, I 
couldn't drive anymore so I went to Lane Community College. Out  
there at the Women's Center, I'd always hang out at the Women's 
Center. I met this one woman. I met two women out there, Margo 
Girard, and she happened to play guitar. She's a fantastic guitar 
player, rhythm guitar, lead guitar. This other woman, Cheryl 
Camelio, who I think she was taking media classes. They had these 
big, honking video cameras. But, she played bass. They were 
talking, and was like, "Man, it'd be really nice. We could just get 
together and jam." I was like, "Well, I play drums." After I was 
injured, my girlfriend brought me a set of drums, a trap set. She's 
like, "Here, just set it up and play, just put  the records on and play," 
and so that's how I— I never was taught how to play drums, I just 
loved playing drums.  
 So I was like, "Yeah, that'd be fun." We set up getting together and 
jamming. Margo knew this woman, Joan, who worked at the credit 
union that had just formed. She played piano. Cheryl sang and 
played bass. My friend, Kate, she  also played drums. We started 
out, we had two drummers, a lead guitar, a bass, and a keyboard. 
Cheryl and Margo kind of led the group. It's like, "Okay, let's do 
this song," and we'd just play along. We didn't really intend to 
become a band, we just liked to play music. We'd get together at 
one of our houses or the other at least once a week and just jam and 
have fun. Then somebody asked us to do a birthday party, "Hey, 
could you play some songs for my girlfriend." It was like, "Okay." 
So we played this birthday. Of course, everyone was drinking and 
partying, as were some of our band members, probably all of us 
actually. It was good fun.   
 Then a few months later, Cheryl's girlfriend I think at the time, 
Barb, asked us if we would do a Take Back the Night event. We 
were like, "Ah, man. We're not really a band. We just kind of want 
to play music." They kind of talked us into it, and we called 
ourselves “Anonymous” because we didn't really want to be 
known. We just wanted to play so just call us “Anonymous.” That 
band— Kate dropped out because it got tiring to have two 
drummers so Kate dropped out. Then we tried a couple different 
things, brought in a woman to  play congas, and brought in a 
couple different people to sing. They'd kind of come and go. Then 
they were getting a little more serious about it, and at one point 
they said, "Well, we want to ask Paula Jo Vaden to come play with 
us." She's a fantastic singer and an incredible— she can play 
everything as far as I know, but an incredible percussionist. They're 
like, "Yeah, we want to bring in Paula Jo." I was like, "Well, that's 
great." So, it was kind of like, "Yeah, so you're kind of out. Paula 
Jo's kind  of in."  
 I was offended for about two minutes, and then I was like, "Well, 
that's cool. I don't really know what I'm doing anyway so it'd 
probably be nice for you to have somebody that knows what 
they're doing and actually knows music and composition and  all 
that." So at that time, they— they  all really jelled together. Again,  I 
think the keyboard, I think Joanie played  for them for a while, and 
then somebody else stepped in. Then they went from— they  called 
themselves TranSister  and they were TranSister  for a couple of 
years, and then they morphed again into what is now Soulicious.  
Of course, there's a couple guys in the band and different— I think 
Paula Jo might be the only original member of that band. Yeah, she 
started way back.  
 But, it was good fun.  I still have my drum sticks. I still have the 
good memories. It was fun.  
Raiskin:  Why did you move to Hawaii?  
Pyburn:  Let's see, okay. At Starflower, when I got there I kept hearing these 
stories. On trucking runs, you've got all those hours to just talk. So 
they'd always tell stories about this wild woman, Judy Phillips. 
Judy is wild, and she's just full on party animal, and just wonderful 
artist. She's a great woman. But she had moved to Hawaii to go 
after her girlfriend that had broken up with her and moved to 
Hawaii I think to get away from her, Connie Pernu. Connie was a 
driver, Judy was a driver. I'd hear these stories of their crazy 
interactions at some point. Connie trying to break up with Judy, 
and Judy becoming a maniac and going after her, "No, you love 
me," just dyke  drama to the max. Connie moved, Judy moved, and 
I kept hearing these stories.  
 Judy was a farmer, let's call it that. Farmers get paid two or three 
times a year. When they harvest, they have a lot of money. So Judy 
would come after her harvest back to Eugene and visit her friends, 
and would just have a wad  of money and would get drugs or 
alcohol, whatever she wanted, and party. This one time that she 
came to town, she was friends with my friend, Flaxen and Kate. I  
finally met this Judy Phillips, and we hit it off. We started dating, 
and I guess kind of fell in love. She invited me. She said, "Well, if 
you want to come to Hawaii, you can do your photography. You 
can help me farm." I'm being very vague there as far as what she 
was farming, just to protect her innocence. She said, "You can make 
zero to sixty  thousand dollars a year." I was like, "Hmm."  
 My daughter had already decided that she was going to go live 
with her dad and her stepmom, who ironically enough, her 
stepmom was one of my bridesmaids when I married him. I knew 
who was going to be taking care of my kid. My daughter had 
decided, "I'm going to go live with Dad and Carolyn and live that 
straight life." We took a while to make that happen, and then she 
was of the age then where she was like, "Yeah, I'm not really going 
to go to Eugene," for my weekend because I'd have her every other 
weekend. Here I was in Eugene, had her little room and would 
wait for her to come on the weekend, and she started going, "Yeah, 
I'm not going to come this time." When I got this invitation, I was 
like, "So, should I sit here and wait for my kid to come visit me and 
just kind of be on hold all this time, or should I move to Hawaii and  
have an adventure?" I was like, "Yeah, I think I'm going to move to 
Hawaii."  
 So I moved to Hawaii with Judy. I packed all my belongings, sold 
everything. I packed my dark room and my photography that I had 
up to that point, and moved to Hawaii.  
Raiskin:  How long were you there?   
Pyburn:  I was there thirty-one years. Yeah.  It was fantastic. I  mean, I went 
with a couple hundred dollars in my pocket  and my darkroom. I 
had thirteen  pieces of boxes and suitcases that I took with me to 
Hawaii and started farming with Judy.  
Raiskin:  What island were you on?  
Pyburn:  Hawaii Island, the Big Island they call it. That was fantastic. I mean, 
just a whole ‘nother world that I never even dreamed of. I felt like I 
was in college for thirty  years because I was learning everything, all 
the different cultures, all the different plants and animals. It was 
just very, very exciting and beautiful. Then every year, I'd come 
back and visit Oregon, visit my family and visit my friends in 
Eugene.  
Raiskin:  So you stayed connected with Eugene?  
Pyburn:  Oh, yeah. Absolutely. I still have those friends to this day. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Anything during those years when you came back that's of 
significance about lesbian history in Eugene?  
Pyburn:  I think just that the community expanded as progress happened 
and towns started changing. Companies like Starflower closed 
eventually. I'm not sure what year they closed. It kind of shifted to 
be more inclusive of more women, and some of the businesses 
didn't survive. There was Mother Kali’s bookstore, that was the go-
to-place to get any lesbiana that you wanted or didn't even know  
existed. Garbagio's went out. It was changing, and it was better in 
some respects and sad in others.  
Raiskin:  How was it better?  
Pyburn:  I think because it was more broad. There was more opportunities. 
There was other companies that came in, and just people were 
growing up. We're getting into our thirties and our forties, and it's 
like, "Okay, well, settle down." As the companies closed, a lot of 
people stayed in touch, but others moved to other places, like 
myself.  
Long:  Were you still with the woman you got together with in Albany 
and then came to Eugene with?  
Pyburn:  Yeah, we were together. She and I, we were together about six or 
seven years. Then I had— I will kindly say that I was a bit of a 
hussy, and I had many, many girlfriends in those six or seven  years 
that I lived in Eugene. So, again, with the board. If you expanded 
that to the town of Eugene, it was  like, "Yeah, let me at it." I have 
one good friend that— Her name is Lanier and both of us were a bit 
of a hussy. So it was kind of debate which one of us was the more 
trouble, and to this day we call each other “Troub.” That's our 
nickname for each other, "Hey, Troub. How you doing?" “Good, 
good.” So she's awesome, and both of us were quite the lady's girl, 
and just had a lot of girlfriends and a lot of drama, but we always 
had fun too.  
Raiskin:  What brought you back to Eugene?   
Pyburn:  Well, basically my mom. I am the only girl in a family of four kids. 
A couple of years ago, my mom, we were on the phone and she 
was saying, "Well, next year I'm going to turn ninety  and I wanted 
to have a party." I was like, "Ninety ? You're not ninety. You're like 
eighty-two." She goes, "No, I'm going to be ninety." I was like, 
"Damn." That thirty-one years went by so fast, so I could not 
believe it. I talked to my son, James, after I had hung up with the 
conversation. I said, "Okay, so Mom's going to be ninety. Do you 
think  we should move home and spend the last years with her, or 
should we just stay here and wait for the inevitable phone call?" I'm 
like, "Yeah, let's go home." So I sold my house. I gave 80  percent  of 
my things away, and shipped a five by five container of all my 
precious goods, my good old dark room, which I've schlepped 
around for fifty years, all my body of work and some art from 
Hawaii and a few precious items, and that was it. We moved back 
to Albany, and literally living with my mom. 
Long:  What year was  that?  
Pyburn:  That was 2016. In fact, next month will be two years that we've 
been back.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about James?  
Pyburn:  James  was born as my grandchild. My only daughter had him, and 
she got into a lot of— well, she was in an abusive relationship, and 
she, like her father unfortunately, is an alcoholic. She got into drugs 
and could not care for James, neither could his dad. His dad kept  
stealing him away from my daughter. He'd go to childcare and pick 
him up and take him away and hide him  literally, somebody's 
house. This went on for a couple years, and James was only two 
when they broke up, but then the drama still continued for a couple 
more years to the point of where my daughter was in and out of 
jail, and just in a bad way. She could hardly take care of herself, let 
alone a child. He was useless because he, too, was an alcoholic and 
druggie, and so he couldn't care for— he'd have everybody else 
take care of him.  
 I would come and visit, and first thing I'd do I get James and bring 
him out to my mom's house, and then my daughter could come 
visit, and we could all be together. At one point, I asked the dad, I 
was like, "Can I take James with me back to Hawaii?" I had been 
injured yet again, so I wasn't working yet. He was like, "Okay, 
cool." So, I took James with me to Hawaii for a month, and then 
brought him back. Six months later, I came back for another visit, 
and I was like, "Hey, can I take him back with  me again?" He's like, 
"No." I had him with me at my folks’, and literally  less than twenty-
four  hours before I was due to go back to Hawaii he said, "Okay, 
you can take him." He had his then wife, which was a seventeen  
year old girl, the “babysitter,” scribble on a piece of paper, "Gail 
Pyburn is the grandma and can make medical decisions." So I had 
something in case I needed it.  
 When I got James to Hawaii again— and he was a hyper little kid, 
just really gregarious and happy, but bouncing off  the walls, and  
behavior like I'd never seen before. He started telling me little 
stories, "Oh, Daddy would slap Samantha. Daddy would tape my 
door shut." I found him digging in the garbage for food, like if I had 
a candy bar last night and I put the wrapper in, that afternoon he'd 
come say, "Tutu—" Grandma is tutu in Hawaiian, and he called me 
Tutu. He said, "Tutu, you had a candy bar last night." I was like, 
"How the hell?" I realized just horrifically that he had been 
accustomed  to looking for food in the garbage because the dad 
never fed him. He was grossly malnourished, and he was kind of a 
wreck.  
 So he started telling me stories, and I've always written. I write all 
the time. I documented throughout, from the time he was born 
literally. He was assigned female at birth, and me being gay, I think 
it was a blessing for me to be able to get him. Back to this scrap of 
paper, I was supposed to take him back in three months. With all 
these stories he'd tell me during the day, and at night I'd write it 
down. I was like, "Oh, my God. They slapped him." I was horrified 
at the things he was telling me. I wasn't prompting him at all. He 
was just a little kid saying, "Yeah, one time Daddy—" I was like, 
"Oh, yeah," and try to just hold my rage back from the treatment 
that they were giving him.  
 I went to legal aid and I said, "You know what? I'm not going to 
take this child back. There's no way I'm going to return him to that 
environment. I don't want to be accused of kidnapping because I 
know the dad would do something like that just because he's an  
ass." Legal aid helped me, and I got guardianship immediately. I 
went to court and the judge was like, "Yeah, boom. You're the 
guardian." I had to post notice back here in Oregon, serve them 
both notice. I served my daughter in jail, and he was found 
somewhere. The sheriff served notice that I was intending to 
become guardian. Neither of them did anything. He actually called 
my attorney and said, "Why is she doing this to me?" She's like, 
"Well, actually, Mr.," what his name is, "I can't really talk to you. 
You have to have your attorney call me." Then he did the best thing 
he could've ever done, he got belligerent. He's like, "She's wrong! 
Argh, argh, argh, argh," just  “argh, argh, argh”. The lawyer was 
like, "Mm-hmm [affirmative], mm-hmm [affirmative], mm-hmm 
[affirmative]." She's like, "Okay," click.  
 We were able to go to court for the guardianship, and the judge 
asked, "Well, what'd the parents say?" My daughter had signed off 
and said, "Okay." She said, "Well, he got quite belligerent," and 
blah, blah, blah, and then did nothing. The judge was like, "Yeah," 
boom, guardianship. Then a couple years later— because  at school, 
he was having a hard time because it was like, "Where's your mom? 
Where's your dad? Oh, your dad's in jail, or your mom's in jail." So 
it was really horrible for him to have to try to have a normal 
childhood and not have all these traumas constantly. I decided, 
okay, I'm just going to adopt him, just so he has, I'm his parent. I'm 
his mom.  He can bank on that. He's not going to have to go back. 
His dad's not going to come and steal him.   
 So, the same thing, I had to serve notice. I had to publish notice in 
the newspaper for a couple months. That's the process. Again, 
neither of them did anything. My daughter signed off on it, and he 
did nothing. I went back to court and the judge sees the file thick of 
all these stories of maltreatment. He was like, "Yeah, boom. You're 
the mom." He's like, "These are happy times in court, when you 
have something like this where a child gets taken away from a bad 
situation and put in a stable environment." He was four when I got 
him, so I raised him since he was four. Again, with his behavior, it 
was just like, "Wow, what is going on?" I had never seen it. I mean, 
at times I'd just be like, "What is going on?"  
 That went on for quite a number of years, and he was showing 
signs of— I was pretty sure that he was gay, just because 
sometimes you just know. Then he also started saying he was a 
boy, and it was like all right. I never told him no or, "No, that's not 
okay. You're not a boy. You're a girl, and you be a girl." I just loved 
and supported him. I was like, "Okay, that's cool." Eventually, 
when he was twelve  something triggered his memories of past 
abuses that I had always suspected, but never knew for sure, to the 
point where he became suicidal before his thirteenth  birthday. He 
was at school one day and he went to the counselor and he goes, 
"Yeah, so I'm going to kill myself on my birthday." Of course, the 
counselor called me immediately. He called the crisis line. The 
crisis guy came out and evaluated, and he's like, "Yeah, he needs to 
go to the ER right now."   
 We took him to the ER, and I was just wide-eyed and going, "What 
on earth?" I had no idea. He had no signs of being suicidal. That 
began a couple years, two or three years, of very intensive— he was 
in a psych hospital three times. They medevac’d him out that 
particular first time, me and him, to Maui  psych hospital, where he 
was for seven days and then released. That began the journey of his 
starting to address these memories that he was having, while at the 
same time also questioning his sexuality and his gender identity. So 
the mix of those two was, as you can imagine, just a very, very 
intense  time.  
 I kind of kept that all hidden from the family because I wanted his 
privacy to be intact for what he was going through. I didn't want to 
broadcast throughout the family and neighbors and everybody, 
and just helped him deal with it. We were in intensive therapy for 
three years, almost four years, two, three times a week-type 
therapy to help him deal with his childhood traumas. In the 
meantime, he was still dealing with his gender identity. He went 
through the Goth period. Part of his mental illnesses  was 
eventually diagnosed with post-traumatic stress, and it was 
complex post-traumatic stress. He would disassociate and for 
hours, sometimes days at a time, but he would write. Oh, my God. 
He wrote these stories, and that was his disassociation. He'd create 
all these characters and this could happen to them and this could 
happen.   
 He was working out all his traumas in these stories, and also with 
art. Since he was a baby, I immersed him. I was like, "Here is pens, 
papers, markers, everything. Do whatever," because I knew that 
would be a great outlet for him. Indeed, to this day, he's now in 
college and is an art major. A big part of moving home was that it 
would give him a break. He didn't have to deal with everybody 
knowing all the trauma he went through over there. He could kind 
of just leave that chapter and come here and start a new chapter 
and just be, "Okay, hi. I'm James."  
 When we got here, we went through the process of changing his 
name, legally. Again, we had to post notice of that. But those little 
steps were huge in his development and his coming to terms with 
not only his trauma and kind of getting a grip so to speak on his 
ability to function and not be so overwhelmed by it all, because 
he'd done so much work to deal with it. Then to be  able to also be 
his true self and fully become James.  
Raiskin:  Has Oregon been a good place for him to transition?  
Pyburn:  It has been. I mean, in Hawaii we had a really great team of doctors 
dealing with gender identity. So that was a great start. Then when 
we got to Oregon, it was even better because the insurances and 
many of the medical facilities were hip to it. They were like, "Okay, 
transgender. Fine, here's this doctor. They're wonderful." He's 
doing much, much better than anticipated. He still deals with his 
drama. He's still in therapy for all of that, and that's kind of 
separate from his gender identity. A lot of people think they're a  
result of one another, but in fact they're separate. Again, being in 
college for thirty-one years, I learned a lot about everything, not 
only myself but also my child.  
Raiskin:  Do you think he'll stay in Oregon?  
Pyburn:  Yeah. I mean, we'll go back and visit Hawaii. For me, it's coming 
full circle. I was born here in Albany and raised, and now coming 
home. It took  a lot of getting used to everything. I mean, you leave 
your shoes on in the house. In Hawaii, that's a major cardinal sin. 
You just don't do it. So, little things like that, eating potatoes 
instead of rice with every meal. Very Oregon, but in Hawaii it was  
just opposite. It was rice with every meal.  
Raiskin:  Do you have thoughts about aging as a lesbian?  
Pyburn:  Well, I think just as a woman, as a lesbian too, and I've had so 
many girlfriends and had every experience I could've imagined 
having. It's funny because James keeps trying to fix me up. He's 
like, "Maybe you could date her." I'm like, "I'm fine. I'm good. I can 
just do me right now, and that's all good." Being a mature woman 
and having had all those relationships, I'm not eager to go there 
again. I'm not putting it out of the realm of possibilities, but I'm all 
good and focusing on my mom. I'm juggling Mom and James. 
Make sure he's okay every day, because he still has moments where 
he has these disassociative moments. It really takes a keen eye and 
a strong sense. It's like I'm constantly monitoring him for his  
wellbeing. It's like, "Okay, where are you at? Okay, you're good. 
Now, Mom. Okay."  
 My role as caretaker is quite evident, and that's where I'm focused. 
I've got all my experiences and all my memories and my friends, 
and I'm good.  
Raiskin:  You're still connected with friends in Eugene?  
Pyburn:  Absolutely, yep. Yep.  
Long:  Are you retired now?  
Pyburn:  Yes. I worked in the film industry in Hawaii. I got into that as a 
roundabout way of staying with the photography. That was 
probably twenty-five years of the thirty-one years, I was in the film 
industry.  
Raiskin:  What were you doing?  
Pyburn:  I worked everything from a production assistant, which is how 
many people start, and worked in props and special effects. I 
worked on Waterworld  was my first union job. I got into the union 
after six years of working in the industry. Working special effects, 
working props. It was intense work. Twelve, fourteen, sixteen hour 
days were common. If you did five or six of those in a row, it was 
like, wow. But the nice thing was, after working as a production 
assistant, I first saw that big film camera and I was like, "Oh, 
whatever. Call me whatever. I'll do whatever job you want as long 
as I can be a part of this." Then I found out that, oh, well these  
places that we're filming at somebody actually scouts those. They 
go out and they take pictures, and they show the director, okay, 
here's this place. Here's this place. I was like, "What?"  
 I starting getting jobs as a location scout. I didn't know what the 
hell I was doing, but I'd get a call from a director and say, "Okay, I 
want a bamboo forest. I want an open  field with green, and  I want 
some rolling hills." I'd go shoot as many of those things I could 
find, and find the landowners and ask them if they'd be open to 
filming. I just kind of made my way, I mean my whole life with all 
these nontraditional jobs— I faked it until I made it. I didn't have 
no idea. I was like, "Okay."  
 I crack up because in moving back from Hawaii, I had to go 
through all these files and locations. In old days, I'd take a 
panoramic one, two, three, four, five. Then you take a manila folder 
and tape them, one, two, three, four, five. Hope all five of them 
turned out because this was back in the days when it was still film, 
so you wouldn't see your stuff until two or three days later, and 
then pray to God you got everything. So I'd mail these files off, and 
some were like ”bbbbrrrrrrrrrrrdt”[gestures].  It'd be like ten 
photographs taped together. It was like “Wrrrrrrrrr.” Very funny to 
look back at that now, because now you can just shoot a panoramic 
and just go “vrooooooo,” and it comes out, the picture is like a 
panoramic. It's all digital now, too. 
Long:  What are some of the movies you worked on?   
Pyburn:  Let's see. I worked on Waterworld, one of the Godzilla films with 
Matthew Broderick. One with Lily Tomlin, which was a bizarre— 
Krippendorf's Tribe. I got to meet Lily. That was fantastic. I worked 
on a TV episodic, “Baywatch Hawaii,” oddly enough, which was a 
great gig. It was six months of work two years on a row. I worked 
on The Tempest  with Helen Mirren. I worked on Don Juan  with 
Johnny Depp and Marlin Brando. I worked on a few music videos, 
Bobby Brown when he was married to Whitney. We were all 
hoping he'd bring Whitney. We didn't really care about Bobby, but 
Whitney was cool.  
 So yeah, I've had great experiences. I worked on Planet of the Apes  
with Mark Wahlberg. That was really cool. Tim Burton was the 
director. So getting to work with these different directors and 
seeing how they operate, and of course it's completely tied to 
photography. It was just fantastic to see that  process of movie 
making compared to my little Betty M. slideshow forty  years 
before. It was like, "Oh, wow. This is cool when you've got 
equipment and crew and locations, and you don't have to be 
everything." I was the photographer and the voice.  
Long:  What happened with your relationship with Judy Phillips then?  
Pyburn:  Well, Judy and I— I moved back with her to Hawaii, and she had 
this little, teeny tiny cabin in the jungle, in the forest. We lived 
there. I mean, it was completely off the grid.  We had a twelve-volt 
battery system of power. Her little cabin had two fifty-five-gallon 
drums of water that just ran off the roof into the barrels. One was  
for the shower, and one was  for the sink. I learned water 
conservation, which makes my mom crazy to this day the way I do 
dishes. Because you'd make a pan of hot water, wash everything, 
set it aside, get clean water, rinse everything, always conserving the 
water. So my mom's like, "Why do you do this?" “Mom, because I 
learned how to conserve water, that's why.” 
 Anyway, so were together for about two years. True to her form, 
she was a party animal. She worked really hard at her farming. We 
worked really hard at her farming, and every day was a grind. I 
mean, you had to keep all your systems working. The propane 
stove, which the propane also ran the shower little pump. The 
twelve-volt system ran a little black-and-white TV and the pump 
on the shower  and our car. When the battery would run down, 
we'd run out, start the car, open the hood, take the battery out 
having already brought out the dead battery to the car from the 
shower, set it in the car, hook it back up, close the lid, drive into 
town. So, the car was our generator. We constantly were rotating 
batteries.  
 We lived this life off the grid, very much in the jungle alone, 
together with her maniacal ways and her drinking like a fish. I, 
again, am not a drinker. I never have been, but the lovers I've been 
with, I've tried to keep up with them. With my husband, I'd try to 
keep up with him. I'd have one beer to his seven. With Judy, she 
drank rum and Coke, I'd drink Bud Light. I'd have one in about  
four hours. She'd have four rum and Cokes in two hours. It was 
fascinating.  
 Eventually, we had a fight about something and I literally walked 
out of the little cabin, walked out to the highway, which was about 
three miles through the forest, walked down towards the main 
town of Hilo. She came and got me on the motorcycle after about 
four or five hours of walking, took me back to the cabin. I was like, 
"No, I'm leaving." She's like, "Well, you can leave in the morning." 
So in the morning, I put a fresh battery in the car and drove into 
town and went and stayed with friends.  
 That began my time of independent living and making my way. I 
mean, I  went there with a couple hundred dollars in my pocket. 
When I left her, our harvest hadn't quite come in yet so I was piss-
poor, but I was happy because I was not in that environment of just 
uncertainty and alcoholism. I love her to death. She's still a good 
friend of mine. We're in touch to this day, and I will always be 
grateful to her for that experience. Not only moving to Hawaii, but 
just all of it.  
Raiskin:  Looking back over all of your rich experiences and all your lovers 
and all your years, is there some advice you’d give to a young 
person who might be watching this video  sometime?  
Pyburn:  I would say to be true to yourself and to always remember 
yourself. I think it's very easy to get lost in the person you’re in love 
with and live for them, like me living in the jungle with an  
alcoholic and nowhere to go. I just had to live that life. But to be 
true to yourself and to take care of yourself, you're number one and 
you have to always remember that. Don't put yourself as number 
two.  
Long:  Was there anything we didn't ask that you wanted to talk about?  
Pyburn:  I don't think so. Yeah, I think we pretty well covered it.  
Raiskin:  Is there something you would say brought you the greatest joy in 
your years in Eugene?  
Pyburn:  I think dancing at the Riv Room was the best. Thursday night was 
women's night, and all the women would go there. It was such fun. 
I mean, you had your girls that were into S and M. They'd come in 
late at night around midnight maybe, and be dressed all slutty-like, 
very into their roles. That was good fun because we'd all kind of 
stand back and go, "Oh, my." Grace Jones pull up to the bumper 
baby, and they're all grinding on each other, and it was like, "Ooh." 
Little Catholic girl from Albany just going, "Wow, that's awesome."  
Pyburn:  Yeah,  I think just the comradery and having so many diverse 
women to know and to learn from and just observe. I was lucky 
being a photographer because I got to photograph almost 
everybody I met one way or another.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. Well, thank you very much for your photographs for this 
collection— 
Pyburn:  Right on, yeah. My pleasure. I'm happy to pass them on.   
Raiskin:  Thank you so much for sharing.  
Long:  Thank you very much, Gail.  
Pyburn:  Thank you. Right on.  
Long:  Appreciate it.  
Pyburn:  Thank you guys.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  