 
Long:  This interview is part of Eugene Lesbian Oral History project. The 
recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Debby  Martin on August 31, 
2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Debby, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Martin:  Yes, I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Martin:  You're welcome.  
Long:  Let's just start with a basic question.  Can you please tell us where 
you were born and when you were born and where you grew up?  
Martin:  Right. I was actually born in North Bend, Oregon, December 1951. 
And actually I have lived in Oregon my whole life. My parents 
moved around a little bit. My dad actually was a World War II vet 
and had gone to school with the GI Bill and decided to teach 
American history in high school. And so he kind of went around 
to different cities trying to find the right fit. And they found that in 
Corvallis. So, when I was in the second grade, we moved to 
Corvallis and that's where I grew up. I have one older brother, and 
I really had one of those kind of found out rather rare, idyllic 
childhoods with very supportive and loving parents and Corvallis 
is a great place to grow up. It's small enough, but it's nice to move 
on.  
 So I moved on to the big city of Eugene and went to the University 
of Oregon, and majored in theater. I had a great time here at the U 
of O as a student in theater. I mean, theater is all consuming. And 
thinking about my awareness as far as being a lesbian, I had 
absolutely no context in the '70s in Oregon. There was really 
nothing in your environment to support the fact that I look back 
and I see myself getting crushes on women, but there was no 
context for it and so nothing happened. But luckily, I also was not  
in a crowd that went to the prom and insisted on me having dates 
and stuff like that. So, it's kind of an advantage of having 
supportive parents, letting you do whatever you want to do and 
being in the theater crowd, which is kind of counterculture. So I 
felt no pressure. And even all through going to the U of O, no 
context for being gay at the time. I was so involved in theater, 
perhaps if I had looked out more, I would have seen something, 
but I didn't.  
Raiskin:  But I would think that theater is where the gay kids would be.  
Martin:  Well, in retrospect, they were. I still am in touch with a lot of 
friends. And it turns out some of them were gay. But nothing was 
going on as far as my life, but I think perhaps I was slightly naive. 
I was happy and so I didn't care. And it was interesting. So I had a 
great time in theater and then I would spend summers in Corvallis 
working in the cannery  earning some extra money and so when I 
graduated, I went to this summer program in London at the Royal 
Academy of Dramatic Art, which was very cool. And I had such a 
good time that I— No, no, no, no, that was after my sophomore 
year. And so I decided I wanted to go back when I graduated to 
London because it was such a  fantastic place.  
Long:  If I could just interrupt, what year was that?  
Martin:  That when I first went to London?  
Long:  So you graduated from UO in 1974?   
Martin:  Nineteen seventy-four. Went back to London and ran out of 
money, spent my last— Okay, it's going to be hard not to go off on 
tangents. But, I spent my last penny to see the cabaret show of 
Marlene Dietrich live. And I was a big film buff and I love Marlene 
Dietrich movies. It was kind of like the Last Supper because I was 
like, I mean, Elton John was there and here I was, I had one little 
dress that I brought. And it was a fantastic show. She was 
incredible. And then— 
Raiskin:  How old was she then?  
Martin:  She was old. It was her last performance, live performance before 
she went into her hermit stage. So I can remember walking up to 
the stage  and it wasn't a huge place, and people were throwing 
roses up and I just went up to look closer and you could tell in 
your closer that she had created a complete and total image that 
wasn't real. That beauty and that assurance. And then when the 
show was over and you looked up and she was slightly not in the 
lights, it was like she's an old woman, but how incredible that she 
has created this.  
 Anyway, I wanted to stay and you couldn't get a work permit. 
And so I was busking. I brought my guitar and I was busking in 
the subway. And somebody told me I could be an Au Pair and 
stay, because you don't need a work permit. So that— awesome. 
So I looked in the paper, I got an Au Pair job. And so I stayed 
another year and a half. The reason I mentioned it is because at 
that time, I had my first relationship with a woman. It was the  
older woman that was the night nurse for the women I took care of 
as an Au Pair. So it kind of came together for me there in 1975 
about and— 
Long:  What can you— What was that like? Can you describe  it?  
Martin:  Well, it was like— we both— it was both our first relationship 
with a woman. And for some reason, I was kind of cast in a role of 
being the experienced one. So, it was very cool. It lasted for a while 
and the interesting thing is she came— I was ready to come home 
after about a year and a half, was kind of homesick. She came with 
me for— she’d  always wanted to see the Grand Canyon. So I said, 
"Okay, come on, we'll go see the Grand Canyon." My parents were 
lending us their car so that  we could, you know. So, I remember 
very clearly. She was upstairs and she said, "You have to tell your 
parents about us." I never had and I said— "Or," she said, "I will 
jump out the window." I said, "Okay." She was a little crazy. So I 
went downstairs and I told my mom and that became a period 
though of— it was a very progressive household, but in the '70s, 
that just wasn't on the radar. And so it was a bumpy coming out 
process with my parents. She eventually went back to England. 
But then— 
Raiskin:  Well,  how old was she?  
Martin:  She was in her forties, probably mid-forties. So, she was much 
older than me. And I think my parents thought— they  told me 
afterwards when we kind of talked about it. They were afraid for  
me because she was older. When in fact, I  had played that role of 
instigator and everything. So, she eventually went back to England 
though, and I went on with my life and I decided just to come back 
to Eugene because I loved Eugene and I had a moment of trying to 
decide if I was going to pursue a career in theater. I thought, I 
don't think I'm up for that. I don't think I want to do that. I would 
rather stay in Eugene, have fun doing things and not  have that 
pressure.  Anyway, because I didn't want to be in L.A. or New 
York. So— 
Raiskin:  What was  Eugene like at this time?  
Martin:  Well, when I got back from London, it seemed like the economy 
was extremely depressed. I can't remember what recession that 
was, but, man, I couldn't find a job. And that's about all I really 
remember. It was— I wasn't very politically— Well, I can't say 
that. I was very politically active even when I was at the U of O 
marching in Vietnam demonstrations and getting tear gassed and 
stuff like that, but I was just trying to find a job. Even though I had 
been involved with a  woman, my identity as a lesbian still wasn't 
there. I just didn't think about it. There was nothing in my 
environment. Then I finally, after being on unemployment and all 
this kind of stuff, got a job as a nurse's aide and there was a lesbian 
couple there  that I became friends with that were very out. 
Actually, Lynn Pinckney, you know Lynn?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.   
Martin:  And Debbie Kester. I think that began my awareness and comfort 
in this community. So I began seeing other women and stuff like 
that.  
Raiskin: Where would you meet people?  
Martin:  Sports. I'm sure that— gosh,  everybody must be talking about 
softball and basketball and hooking—. Well, anyway, I met more 
people through that. Debbie and Lynn and then my basketball 
team and my softball team. It seemed like the general atmosphere 
in Eugene, the time was very open. I mean, it wasn't a big deal. It 
wasn't a hush-hush thing to meet someone and you just knew. 
You didn't have to "Are you gay?" No, nobody did that. You just 
started hanging out with people. I  thought of something in the 
shower this morning for the first time and that was when I was 
friends with Debbie and Lynn, Lynn did really wonderful 
watercolors. And I said to her, "I'll make you deal. I'll give you a 
little performance in your living room,  if you paint me a 
watercolor. And so we did.  
 So I did monologues that I had kind of been familiar with or had 
done in my days at the U of O Theater Department. But one of 
them I wrote and it was called Requiem for a Lesbian, I think. No,  
Requiem for Bobby Sue Divine,  LSBN. Don't ask me that. So that 
though became then a one woman show I did just a few times and 
I wrote music for it. I wrote songs, and a friend of mine from 
basketball, Pat McLaughlin, and her partner, Melissa Mentz er, 
were very good singers and Pat was a good guitar player. So I  
wrote like— I can't remember, like six songs or something, and 
performed this show, Bobby Sue Divine LSBN.  
 I had gone from the nursing home to my first clerical job at the U 
of O at what used to be called the Main Desk Store. I became 
aware of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance, I think it was called, the 
student group, and asked if they would book my show. They said, 
"Yeah." And so I can remember doing it in the Linder Room, that 
old Ben Linder Room  in the EMU. I can remember being very 
aware of telling the people at work. So I was a little nervous, but it 
seemed like a very natural way to do it. Also at the time, I was in 
kind of my first serious long-term relationship, and so I kind of 
wanted people to know, and so that was kind of my coming out at 
work, and I never had any negative feedback for the next twenty-
five years.  
Raiskin:  What was the show? What was it about? 
Martin:  It was a series of monologues and songs about a young lesbian. I 
was racking my brains. I didn't even remember this show until this 
morning in the shower, thinking about coming. I could only 
remember one song which starts out— Let's see, "I'm in love and I 
really need her. I've got a crush on the head cheerleader," which is 
frankly a pretty awful lyric, but it's the only one I remember. I 
hope that, maybe some place, I might have a cassette of that show 
because it's got like all these songs and we performed it, what, in 
the '70s. We performed it in the Ben Linder Room  and then we 
rented like the Eugene Flower Home something-something,  and  
did it there. And then the only other time I remember doing it was 
we got booked in a bookstore in Sherman Oaks, California.  
 So I was like “Road Trip!” and we all stuffed everything in a  
station wagon and went down there and did the show. And so 
that was fun. If I had heard about a show or something like that, I 
probably would have gone and really enjoyed it but there wasn't 
too much out there. Of course there was women's music, which I 
can remember being aware of at that time too, and having to play 
a pretty big role in being a part of that— even going  to a show at 
the Wow Hall with Holly Near, or whoever, and then that 
translated into me being able to help book those kinds of shows 
when I worked at the Cultural Forum. I worked at the Main Desk 
and then I went to collections for a couple of years. Then my 
friend, Linda Dievendorf, said, "Hey, Debby, there's a staff 
opening here at the Cultural Forum." And so I applied and I got 
that job.  
 Boy, that was a big part of my evolving, even political or social 
awareness, of trying to be out as a lesbian and how important that 
was, and helping other people.  Because when I first started 
working at the Cultural Forum, I worked with Linda and my 
direct boss, the Vice Director of the EMU was Frank Geltner, a 
wonderful, wonderful man who immediately asked me, "Do you 
have a partner or significant other?" Phrased in exactly those ways, 
which at the time was unusual. And I said, "Yes, I do." And so it 
was easy to come out and then not long after that, he was very  
active in a professional organization called Association of College 
Unions International, which is basically everybody that works in 
student activities, which is a pretty big group.  
 He said, "ACUI has just started a steering committee for gay and 
lesbian concerns." He said, "Do you want to be on it?" I said, 
"Okay." And so I was on the regional one for the  Northwest. One 
of the big reasons I said okay, was the summer planning meeting 
was in Calgary, Canada, which sounded very cool. So anyway, 
that started a couple of decades of trying to be very proactive and 
helping people on campus as a staff person and also as a student 
advisor to be very proactive in creating a safe and positive 
environment for gay and lesbian students, and later on trans 
students. So I found that work very rewarding. I remember— 
Long:  Debby, could you explain what the Cultural Forum actually was?  
Martin:  Yes. At the time, EMU Cultural Forum was the student 
programming office.  
Long:  And the EMU is the Erb Memorial Union.  
Martin:  Erb Memorial Union. Yeah. Virtually, every campus, even 
community colleges have some form of student programming 
office. And so the cool thing about an association like ACUI is you 
network and learn from each other. So I actually did a lot of that 
on the programming side, but being on the steering committee, 
first, the regional one and then the national one, gave  me an 
opportunity to really— the main thing was to create educational  
sessions at these conferences to help people learn about their gay 
and lesbian students on campus, particularly at campuses where, 
not like the U of O.  
 At the time, they had just started the Dean of Students Educational 
Support Services position for gay and lesbian. They had started 
that position. Jackie Balzer was the first person and then Stephanie 
Carnahan, whom I'm still very good friends with. Boy, we did—
we called them “Homo 101 Sessions,” because it was for— at first, 
you had to be brave to come to those sessions. There weren’t that 
many people that came. At first, the people that came to the ed 
sessions were the people on the steering committee.  
Raiskin:  What were the ed sessions?  
Martin:  Like I remember the first one I did for a national conference was 
lesbians in history. Gosh, talk about archives. What was that guy's 
name? Harry Hay— are you?  
Long:  Yeah, in San Francisco.  
Martin:  Yeah, didn't he have some kind of archive or collect?  
Long:  There is LGBT archives in San Francisco.  
Martin:  Right. Anyway, from somewhere, I got this information, and I got 
little stickers. And it's like also I remember really is talking about 
Eleanor Roosevelt and Sappho, but there must have been  other 
people. So that was the first one I gave. But then I started working 
with Stephanie and she would present an ed session that was like,  
how to work with gay and lesbian students. How to advise gay 
and lesbian students. I would start doing ed sessions  on how to 
program gay and lesbian events. I remember doing a little 
slideshow with the cassette tape with other women's music 
people. I get in touch with the bookers and they would send me all 
their info and I would tell people, "Just book Hunter Davis,” you 
don't have to advertise it as a lesbian folk singer." But I said, 
"Believe me, lesbians will come and they'll feel empowered, and 
like a sense of community and that will start things on your 
campus."  
 So we did a lot of things like that and it was rewarding for me and 
then I also, I remember discovering the Safe Zone magnets, which 
were a little magnet with a green circle and a pink triangle in it. As 
a staff person, you just put that on your file cabinet and you 
wouldn't have to explain it unless someone asked you. But again 
lesbian students would then feel— at least when I saw that, feel 
just a little bit more welcome and unafraid and if they had to ask 
for some assistance about something relating to that, then that 
person might be able to help them. I  remember talking to Frank 
about it, and I said, "Frank, I want to send a memo out to the entire 
staff at the U of O, and say, ‘If you want a safe zone magnet, let me 
know and I'll give you one.’"  
 We talked about it for a while because there was some concern 
that maybe a homophobic person would put one up on purpose. I 
said, "You know something? I don't think so." I mean, we're in the  
middle of all the ballot measures, all that stuff. And I said, "This 
will just— let’s just see what happens." If somebody asks for one 
that I don't know who they are, I can probably find out. I mean, 
you're not talking about a big deal. So he said, "Yeah, go ahead, 
send out the memo." And also Adele McMillan, at the time, was 
the Director of the EMU who was very supportive.  
Raiskin:  There were stickers for doors to for a faculty?  
Martin:  Yes, yeah. Yeah. So I think it was a good program. I can't 
remember when we started it, but— 
Long:  What was the response to the email?  
Martin:  It was very— well, there wasn’t  email at the time. This is a hard 
copy letter. But talk about— I was thinking  maybe I have a 
cassette somewhere that show it and I'm like, "How would I 
play— right. Probably we have to go to Goodwill and get, you 
know." Anyway, the response was positive. It wasn't 
overwhelming. It wasn't a lot, but you began to see them popping 
up here in there. So, and then I know that I began meeting other 
gay and lesbian staff people. And so it wasn't a huge deal, not at 
the U of O. When we made this available to the National 
Association, that was interesting, and some people were quite 
afraid. I said, "Then don't do it. It's okay. It's all right." And my 
experiences with these ed sessions and— And then we had a lot of 
other people say, "Yeah, I'll do this. I'll do this and present at the 
conferences."   
 I remember, I have to tell you a story about— we were in 
Pocatello, Idaho for the regional conference, and that's kind of 
conservative country. And so Stephanie did her Homo 101 ed 
session, and I said, "How'd it go?" She said, "It went great. There's 
quite a few people there." I was talking to her about it, and this 
woman walked up to her and said, "I just went to your ed session, 
and I thought it was really good." Stephanie said, "Well, I thank 
you so  much." And the women said, "I just want you to know, 
though, that you're going to burn in hell." Steph said, "Well, 
thanks for letting me know."  
 So, I don't know. Times like that, you kind of think I guess we're 
doing some good here. I remember also a high point kind of was 
this big burly guy that was from, I can't remember the school in 
Bozeman, which is— 
Long:  Montana State.  
Martin:  Yeah, very different from the one in Missoula, kind of like here. 
Big burly guy is a nice guy and he came up to me once and he 
said, "I appreciate your presence in our association because 
actually, I'm gay, but I'm still in the closet. But the things I've 
learned from you have helped me a lot, and I think I'm going to 
come out at work." And so that was very cool. So yeah, my work 
with ACUI was very rewarding. I really have to give a shout out to 
Frank and Adele, and later Dusty Miller. Although I had my 
problems with Dusty, he was very supportive of that work.  
Because you had to have a budget to go all over the country for 
these meetings.  
I also remember going to Boston. I can't remember it all what year, 
but we were going to meet with a trans woman. And so it was the 
first time we had started talking about trans  issues. It was just the 
steering committee in Boston one summer. I learned so much, very 
early on about trans issues that helped me a lot when those issues 
started coming up with the students. I also never forget that. It 
was two women and two men on the steering committee. After the 
meeting, "Wow, that's great. We got to add the T to our steering 
committee name. We have to start programming." I think we 
brought Kate, what's her name?  Kate Bornstein? 
Raiskin: Bornstein. 
Martin:  Yeah, to conference, to keynote and stuff like that. It was great. But 
after the meeting, "Well, wow that's great. And what are you going 
to do?" Guys went out dancing and we went to a Red Sox game. 
Talk about gender roles. It's great, so we thought that's pretty 
funny. So anyway— 
Raiskin:  Do you remember what it was like for students on campus during 
the Ballot Measure 9? 
Martin:  I don't. I remember what it was like for the staff. It was terrifying, 
frankly, it was terrifying. Because we hadn't always managed to 
successfully pass ballot measures that we had wanted to. We had 
managed to, well, except for the Springfield, there's that  
Springfield, one that passed. That was a negative one. And so we 
really didn't know which way it was going to go. I honestly don't 
remember what it was like for the students. I remember though 
thinking if it passes, I suppose— I just don't know. I mean, I 
couldn't do my job anymore, basically. And so I wouldn't stop 
doing my job. So how would that fall out? I mean, would they 
have to fire me? Would I go to  court? Probably, all that would 
have happened. But it was quite terrifying and I'm sure the 
WYMPROV!  ladies talk to you about doing benefits for No on 9. 
Sally and Enid are brilliant song parody writers. So we had the 
whole No on 9  songbook. That actually  helped, being in 
WYMPROV!  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what WYMPROV!  is?  
Martin:  Yeah, WYMPROV!  is a four women comedy improv group. We 
started twenty-five years ago. And I'm kind of very conscious of 
the fact that you've interviewed the other three women because we 
were talking about it over Mahjong the other night that we were in 
WYMPROV!  which is a very central focal part of my life anyway. 
And yet, we all had these different roles in the lesbian community. 
Enid, especially with her women's music show. Vicki did a lot of 
IMRU programming. Sally, oh my gosh, Sally was just ubiquitous. 
She's like the “Eugene Lesbian,” whenever something came up, 
"Hello, is this—" You know with the Register-Guard, with the TV 
stations would be there filming. Sally was the go-to as well  
because of all of her activism, and I think me mostly on campus 
and so—  
 When we started twenty-five years ago, they probably told you 
the story. We came from different ways into this group of women 
that just had gotten together to play improv games. And I had, 
after coming back from London, I'd been in a production of Romeo 
and Juliet, but I hadn't really done any theater. I was starting to 
really want to. So I noticed that Sally was doing a show, The Sound 
of Lesbians, how could you not notice that? I went to see it. And 
anyway, I thought, "I don't want to just try out for a play. I want to 
do something different." I wasn't really enamored of the 
traditional theatrical format and so I said, "I got to get together 
with Sally and say, ‘Let's do something, let's do a show!’" We 
had— Cultural Forum had programmed Holly Near and Enid was 
introducing her as the women's music icon of—  
 So after the show, I said, "Hey, Enid," because I knew Enid was 
with Sally. I said, "Tell Sally I want to get together and do some 
theater." And Enid goes, "Oh, we're getting together to do this 
improv stuff," because they had booked Karen Williams. And had 
done improv stuff and so I said, "Okay, I'll go." So, there was a 
group of women that were playing these improv games, and it 
was very fun and all of a sudden, somebody said, "So when are we 
going to perform in front of people?" And I'm like, "What?" It's 
like, I had kind of thought that you do this, and then you write 
something. I said, "Wow, I never—" I said, "I guess I'm game," and  
people kind of dropped off like flies because they were too busy. 
But there was five of us and we took this picture in the Linder 
Room. I probably scheduled it to rehearse, right? And we took this 
picture of just our five heads above it like, "Hello, here we are."  
 And we start talking about our publicity about five lesbian improv 
group and one of them went, "Oh, no, no, no, I can't do that. I 
teach in Springfield." So we said, "Well, we understand, but I think 
that's kind of the route we're going to go." And so she said, "Okay, 
I'm just going have to drop out." So we cut her head out of the 
picture. So our first picture ever has a little line in the middle of it. 
But I understand why she had to not do it. So that kind of was our 
consciousness from the beginning. "Let's do this. Let's be four 
lesbians performing." And so that was it from the get-go. I can't— 
So, yeah. And so it was natural for us then to do benefits for No on 
9. That's kind of where that all came from. So then I became a 
visible, I suppose, member of the lesbian community, which was 
cool. It was very cool. And so— 
Raiskin:  What kind of things were you booking for the university?  
Martin:  Yeah, I was going say, the way we ran the Cultural Forum at the 
time was very student centered, like the students did the booking, 
we back them up. But the students were totally into just booking 
anything, I mean. And so there would be a lot of like, what's her 
name?  Annie Bright, the sex positive— 
Raiskin:  Susie Bright.   
Martin:  Susie Bright, has a great— Man, the ballroom was packed and she 
was fantastic. She was really good. She really opened my eyes to a 
lot of stuff.  
Raiskin:  Annie Sprinkle. 
Martin:  Annie Sprinkle. That's right. Yeah, yeah. Oh my gosh, she was 
fantastic. Stuff like that all the way to a lot of women's music. I 
remember being the first group to bring on Ani DiFranco and 
they— Just, we had a lot of great shows. And of course  then, at a 
certain point, we started the Queer Film Festival. And boy, I think 
that was a good example of the students being ahead of the curve 
because that was the first use of the word queer in programming 
on campus. And it was kind of a big deal. And the students were 
like, "Oh, it has to be, it has to be the Queer Film Festival." Now, 
it's not a big deal, but at the time, it was a big deal. And I said, 
"Okay, I support you." It was also— I brought up, let's start a 
film— Gay and Lesbian Film Festival. They're the ones that— 
because at the time, those movies just weren't available. I mean, 
they just weren't. I think we had VCRs then. I can't remember. 
Maybe not, maybe not. We had to book like sixteen  millimeter 
prints and everything. There was no streaming, no digital, 
nothing. And so it was the only way to have these movies on 
campus was to book them through these places that had sixteen  
millimeter prints and— 
Long: Around what time, what year was that?   
Martin:  I do know that year. I do know that year and I don't know if I 
should tell this whole story but  maybe I will. Because, was it— 
gosh, damn it. I thought I'd written that down. Okay, I don't know 
the year but I do want tell you because— 
Raiskin:  Well, we just had the twenty-sixth anniversary, twenty-sixth 
Queer Film Festival.  
Martin:  Okay, so yeah.  
Raiskin: Twenty-six years ago.  
Martin:  We'll do the math. Yeah, twenty-six years ago. Sorry. The first year 
was hugely popular. Even though the first year, where  the Wildish 
Theater is used to be a independent little film, not little but they 
showed movies there. And so I booked it. So the big final movie 
was this lesbian movie called Claire of the Moon, which is awful. 
And it's okay, all the lesbians came. It was like huge crowd. By the 
end the movie though, they're screaming at the screen, because it 
was really, it really wasn't a very good movie. It's like it took like 
this whole movie for the woman to finally to kiss the other 
woman, and they're like screaming at it.  
Raiskin:  And this is in Springfield that all the lesbians—. 
Martin:  It is Springfield. Yeah, that's true. That's true. Anyway, it was fun, 
but it was a bad movie. So the interesting thing is the second year 
and we had a program and we put it all around campus and that 
was the second year was the first time we had some negative  
feedback from the campus. And it was Ed Coleman. And he wrote 
a letter that said, "It really shouldn't be on this campus. And it 
should be removed." And it was a really good teaching moment. 
And it was good for me to reinforce the fact that the students were 
making good decisions. So we wrote a response together.  
Raiskin:  What was his objection?  
Martin:  See, this is an interesting thing because I just remember him saying 
it didn't belong on campus, that this kind of programming was not 
good. When it came up recently, this past year, to name 
Westmoreland Community Center in honor of Ed Coleman since 
he passed away,  I reached out to Sally and Stephanie Carnahan, 
Sally Sheklow. Because at the time Sally Sheklow was working for 
CALC, and the MLK committee was bringing an extremely 
homophobic speaker that was against gay marriage. Sally, in her 
role as the CALC  Director, was registering formal complaint, 
especially that the Human Rights Commission should not be 
helping to bring this person.  
 Ed Coleman was a strong proponent to bring this person and said, 
"Let us not sully the conversation with gay marriage 
conversation." And then Stephanie Carnahan also, in her 
experience, as the Gay and Lesbian Support Services said, "I had 
also homophobic experiences with Ed Coleman.” And so I felt 
compelled to write to the city council about it.  In that process, was 
trying to pinpoint the exact day, or the year, that we received— 
And I absolutely knew it was the second year because I remember  
he objected to the program being distributed and I thought the 
program was very mild. It was a really wonderful documentary 
called Forbidden Love about lesbian pulp novels and the cover was 
just some woman.  
 So I went to the office, which is now the Student Activities Office. 
And actually, Mandy, who originally was a Cultural Forum 
receptionist, and then we hired her as a staff person and she 
continued in that role. I asked if I could access the files or if indeed 
they still had the files. The guy that was sitting at the receptionist 
desk, I think the Queer Film Festival had just happened, and he 
said, "Oh, it started in blah, blah, blah." So I had that year. So I said 
to Mandy , "Do you still have these files? And perhaps, Professor 
Coleman's letter is in it." And she said, "I'll check."  
 Then I got an email back from her that I had to do the Freedom of 
Information Act. So I submitted a request, and of course, it came 
back but it cost $179. So  that's where I'm at with that. It's too late 
for that. I mean, it's very, very difficult to talk about history, 
though. I mean, it was not easy for me to speak up. I obviously 
was the only person that was going to, even though these other 
people I talked to went, "Oh, yeah."  
Raiskin:  Can you clarify that Professor Coleman was an esteemed African 
American scholar  on this campus?  
Martin:  That's a very good point. Yeah, Professor Coleman did have an 
amazing history in this Eugene community of civil rights activism,  
and rightfully so.  They  were thinking of honoring him for that. But 
in some of the things that I was reading, it was using the word 
social, instead of civil rights and he was not necessarily a beacon of 
social activism. And I felt like that needed to be known and let the 
chips fall where they may. I guess that's something about being 
around as long as I have and preserving that history and speaking 
the truth about it, and learning from it as a community that—  
 The trouble was, I didn't know if he had changed his mind. And so 
it brings to mind the whole renaming process here on campus and 
how, well, Deady  changed his mind so we're going to keep that 
hall? But this guy didn't, so we're going to change this name. And 
I didn't know that and unfortunately, it took me a while to gather 
my wits and my facts and talk to people and say, "Can I use your 
name?" So I met the deadline that the city council set for public 
comment, but it still was too late for them to use it and it's very 
interesting to me that I heard back from Betty Taylor, who said, 
"Thanks for sending this. It was too late for me to—"  
Raiskin:  She’s  on the City Council?  
Martin:  Yes, on the City Council and one other City Council person, 
Jennifer Yeh. She was actually very nice, and gave me a few 
avenues to pursue that. That didn't go anywhere. But I was 
disappointed to not hear from some of the other people. Anyway, I 
guess that's part of your role as the person that's been in the 
community this long. I am still pondering, trying to get the money 
together to get the Queer Film Festival files because I have a  
feeling this issue will come up again on campus. I think perhaps 
it's important to have this information out by then. So, it's a 
difficult issue, and my wife did not want me to pursue it. I  
understand why. She's a person of color and— 
 Anyway, the issue of are you going to put yourself out there? Are 
you going to be visible? But that's kind of what I've done. And so I 
have the advantage of having come from a supportive family, a 
work atmosphere where I was supported, my wife does not have 
that experience as a Native American. And so, the idea of putting 
yourself out there is not— well,  she's very protective also. So, 
anyway, that was— 
Raiskin:  Will you— You worked on the Willamette Folk Festival? 
Martin:  Yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Can you talk about the programming of that? That used to be a 
very big event.  
Martin:  Yes. I have to give a shout out to my coworker, Linda Dievendorf, 
because we created— Well, first of all, Frank Geltner  and Adelle 
McMillan created a student programming format— was very 
student forward. And the Willamette Valley Folk Festival  was 
three days of free music on the east lawn. And the students made 
all of the programming choices. Linda and I, as staff, made sure 
that all of the infrastructure was going to be there, contract, 
staging, the students learned it all too. Security. And the 
interesting thing was as it got more successful, let's just say it was  
not appreciated by the University of Oregon. Because it drew this 
whole crowd to campus that I don't think they necessarily cared 
about, because it wasn't the kind of crowd that was going to give 
money.  
 So, the more successful it got, the more we had to fight to keep it 
on campus. We thought it should be on campus. And when Linda 
and I— Well, I think I was there for fifteen  years, Linda was there 
for probably twenty. It finally got to a breaking point where we 
were being told what to program by the administration of the 
EMU and Student Affairs. And we said, "We're sure that we can 
advise the students to buy into this. That's the way we operate." 
Also, we had a consensus model of making the decisions. Was 
consensus minus two, meaning Linda and I were the two staff 
people. So we could never override a unanimous decision by the 
students.  
 But that wasn't good enough. Dusty Miller, bless his heart, said 
"No, no, sometimes you need to tell the students what to do." 
Here's the crux of it. Our salaries were paid 100% by incidental 
fees. Incidental fees are allocated 100% by the students. As a staff 
person, you're really in an interesting spot because your contract is 
signed by the administration. So it's paid by the students. It's 
signed by the administration. Which bucket are you going to put 
all your eggs in? We went with the students. Linda's contract was 
not renewed. So she was the first to go. I was removed from the 
Cultural Forum in the  Student Activities Resource Office, which  
then was cut by the students, because it was a ridiculous kind of 
little weird thing and so we were gone.  
 But we had fifteen  or twenty  great years and amazing 
relationships with the students. And some of the stuff is carried on 
like the Queer Film Festival for better or for worse, but the Folk 
Festival, no. It went away. There's still the Willamette Valley 
Music Festival and it's still does this and that and has been off 
campus, on campus a day here, a day there. So— 
Long:  Did that happen recently when you left, when you were not 
renewed?  
Martin:  Yeah, the Folk Festival  I think had two more years. Let's see, I 
retired in 2007. I had a couple years at the Women's Center as a 
half time. I don't know.  They just kind of squeeze you out  and it 
was interesting. But yeah, the Folk Festival, seems like there was 
two more years and then it left. Yeah, well, it did kind of mess up 
the lawn, especially if it rained, rain or shine,  and commencement 
liked to use the lawn. And oh, my God, if you mess up, I mean, 
you can't be messing up commencement. I understand that. But 
man, we had a lot of conversations about what kind of security we 
had, which was the low key. We had the Country Fair security 
people. You don't want to have confrontations. I mean, of course, 
we're going to have people that come to the Folk Festival that 
maybe aren't going to be too conducive to  people sitting on the 
lawn and enjoying music.   
 But I think the big thing was, what kind of programming do you 
want on  campus? And if it's student driven programming, it's 
going to be cutting edge and exciting and maybe a little hard to— 
it’s going to create controversy. But those moments are the 
amazing moments to teach. And it was so exciting working with 
students because it's such an amazing time when people are in 
college, and then they discovered this activity that they can do 
outside of the classroom that's so valuable. Even though it's like 
concert programming or lecture programming, it's like if you put 
that on your resume, it's a big deal. It's a big deal. So, a lot of our 
students went into the concert industry and a lot of them just got 
management jobs because they were active in student activities, 
regardless of what you did, and programming the art galleries, 
lectures, oh my gosh, we had amazing programming. I kind of go 
online every once in a while, check it out. And so— 
Raiskin:  My impression is that the town-gown divide was not as strong 
then, as it is now that more people came to campus to do these 
events that were being programmed.  
Martin:  Right.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what were— thinking  about the lesbian 
community in town and its relationship to the university?  
Martin:  Oh, boy, that is a good question. To me, it was kind of two 
separate worlds, to be honest. I mean, yeah. I think it was two 
separate worlds for me, so I'm not sure I can speak to that.   
Raiskin:  Can you describe what Eugene non-campus lesbian world was 
like for you?  
Martin:  It was just a fabulous world of WYMPROV! shows  and laughter 
and activism through laughter. It was such a wonderful thing. It 
was particularly fighting the ballot measures. It's interesting:  I've 
got to give an anecdote about the ACUI, that professional 
organization, and once we started programming and  other people 
started programming, this one guy from Emory University, a 
really great, great gay guy who's very supportive, had an ed 
session every conference where people could just come share their 
stories. It was considered a safe space. Nothing would leave this 
space. People would just come if they wanted to tell their story, 
which is kind of like this archive. It's a very cool experience.  
 I remember I went— I didn't go all the time, but one year I went 
and it was after we had defeated Ballot Measure 9. So people 
speak, there's always a lot of Kleenex, a lot of tears. Sometimes it's 
very personal at the time, a lot of it was around the AIDS epidemic 
early on and losing people. I started to talk about Ballot Measure 9. 
This guy, he goes, "Oh, excuse me.  We don't talk about politics 
here." I said, "Okay," because he— But later on, I thought, you 
know, this was very personal. This wasn't politics. This is my life. 
This is my job. But I was never able to share that then. It was an 
interesting moment. Things  like that being on the ballot are— 
There's nothing like it, is there? There's nothing like it. It's like 
people are voting on what? Voting on how I do my job. Like I  
couldn't promote homosexuality? It's like another story. I think it 
was the year after the Ed Coleman letter. We got  another letter 
from a professor in the music school. He said— Oh my God. He 
said, "Okay, first of all, you shouldn't be using the word queer 
because look at what these ballot measure people do.” In other 
words, censor yourself so you don't upset people so they don't put 
these ballot measures on. Okay. That's not exactly what I would 
recommend but, okay.  And he continued to say, "These rabble 
rousing students that started the Queer Film Festival, they 
shouldn't be supported. You should have normal gay students that 
do normal programming. And furthermore, I would be happy to 
host meetings at my house." Oh no, “at my house.” Oh my God! 
So, hooo! We— I showed the letter to the students and they're like, 
"Oh, unh-uh." They weren't even going to reply. So I showed the— 
So, then in the meantime, I'm just using names, okay? Sue me if 
you want. So this professor send this letter out to everybody and 
their mother and so the Dean of— Vice Dean of Students, some— 
Gerry Moseley, he said, "Oh, I got this letter, and I'm concerned. I 
think maybe the Queer Film Festival has gone too far. And who 
are these students anyway?" So I'm talking to Frank because this is 
like Frank's boss, Frank Geltner, he's the Associate Director of the 
EMU but Vice President for Student Affairs or whatever. So, I said 
to Frank  said, "Okay, just between you and me.  The guy that wrote 
this letter is gay. He's not out and he's writing this letter. I think 
we need to talk about internalized homophobia. ” So we're kind of 
trying to figure out how to— that’s  a touchy subject. It's very  
touchy subject. So we're trying to figure out how to broach this to 
Gerry Moseley. And before we get a chance, Gerry Moseley is 
sued for sexual harassment by some young men, and his career is 
over. So, that letter just kind of disappeared into the ether. So 
yeah, there's some to be said for just persevering and continuing to 
program. But, yeah.  
Oh, I forgot. When I was thinking about this stuff, my friend Joey 
Petitti and I, one year, it's when Mother Kali’s  Bookstore—which 
I'm sure it's probably come up in your archival stuff—was going 
through a lot of trouble. So Joey Petitti and I decided to start the 
Mother Kali’s  rent brigade and cover their rent for one year. We 
just kind of put feelers out into the lesbian community and we got 
all these people that send us checks for $20 for a whole year.  
 So, I mean, that's kind of a good example of the lesbian 
community is just out there. As a lesbian in Eugene, probably kind 
of took it for granted and I think I was very lucky in that that's 
really my only experience, being in Eugene and falling in with this 
group and that group that says, "Yeah, let's be out,  let's be 
lesbians," and being able to be a lesbian on campus and a lesbian 
with WYMPROV!, and it's been a great experience. We'll see 
where it goes. I don't know. You know what? Did they tell you 
that we play Mahjong  now instead of perform?  
Raiskin: How do you know how to play?   
Martin:  A friend of mine, Janine Heidenreich, she lives in Portland now, 
said you want to— She had Mahjong and so I went to— she had a 
big gathering and I learned there. I don't know how Sally  and 
Enid— I think we taught Vicki and of course she beats our ass all 
the time now. Anyway, yeah.  
Long: Can I ask when you did that rent brigade for Mother Kali’s, where 
was the store at that time?  
Martin:  It was right near campus.  
Long:  On Thirteenth. 
Martin:  On Thirteenth. Yeah, yeah.  
Long:  Okay. And then I had another question. Did you ever work with 
Adele McMillan?  
Martin:  Mm-hmm. [affirmative] 
Long:  Can you tell us something about her?  
Martin:  Adele was very hands off, and in that way, was a wonderful 
administrator. Later on in life, and even— She was also very 
involved with ACUI and in fact, I think  was the first female 
president that was elected of ACUI. Later on in life, I recognized 
her as probably a lesbian, she was  really into golf and that stuff. 
But she, as far as I know, never came out. But she would always 
support the Cultural Forum and the programming. We did some 
challenging programming sometime in the art gallery or bringing  
people to speak. And she would— and of course, she would be the 
first one to get the letter or the phone call or whatever. And she 
would always say, "Oh, you just need  to call the Cultural Forum." 
That's all she would say. So I admired her a lot. She was very 
hands off. So I don't think she ever appeared downstairs next to 
the student offices. But in retrospect, when we had another 
director, that was very hands on, that  looked pretty good. 
Long:  So she had been the Director of the EMU— 
Martin:  Correct  
Long:  —for many, many years?  
Martin:  Many, many years. Linda and I, working with Cultural Forum, 
caught that end of— well, maybe five years or more. And then the 
second half of our tenure there was with Dusty Miller. And that 
was much more problematic. But, he also can be very supportive 
sometimes. Yeah, in the end, karma is an interesting thing. I 
actually have been a practicing Buddhist for over forty  years, and 
well, actually, that's another realm where, actually I probably 
experienced the most outright discrimination within my Buddhist 
group. They were very into like— it's a Japanese type of Buddhism 
and they really wanted to come to the United States and assimilate 
and appear American. It's an interesting process, but, I'm sorry, I 
got off on a tangent there. Oh, karma. Oh, yeah, Dusty fired Linda. 
Linda took early retirement. And eventually, I lost my job.   
 I quit to take care of my dad for a year and then took early 
retirement. So Linda and I have been retired for over ten years. 
And actually, we went to Adele's Memorial at the ballroom long 
after we had retired, but we came back and it was a really 
wonderful service. And of course, we saw Dusty and I said, "Hi, 
Dusty, how are you doing?" And it's like, he looked awful. And he 
had like a black eye. He had fallen or something and he—. I said, 
"Dusty, aren't you retired yet?" And he goes, "No.” He lost a bunch 
of money when that crash happened.  So it's like, because of him, 
Linda and I are like retired for ten years and he's still slaving 
away. So I was like, "Oh, I guess things aren't really that—" When 
you're in something, it's very traumatic sometimes, but with a little 
perspective— you know.  
Raiskin:  I'd like to hear about your Buddhist training and practice in the 
group that you've been with.  
Martin:  It's called Soka Gakkai International. Actually, it's been in the 
United States post World War II. A lot of war brides actually 
brought the practice to the United States. When I came back from 
London in '76, I couldn't find a job as I said, and I was standing in 
line to get food stamps. And this woman behind me goes, "Tough 
times,  huh?" and I said, "Yeah," and she goes, "Here, try this chant. 
Nam Myoho Renge Kyo.” I said, “Okay, sure.” And so then I'm 
filling out the form and she goes, "Can I take down your phone 
number?" I said, "Okay." So she keeps calling me and inviting me 
to a Buddhist meeting. So, at the time, I was in this community  
production of Romeo and Juliet. And I had rehearsals, and I said, 
"Oh, I can't come. I can't come. I have rehearsal." I was  just 
blowing her off. And so then she came to see my performance.  
 I thought, "Oh, well, that's nice. I guess I'll go to her Buddhist  
meeting." And long story short, I joined and I've been chanting 
and practicing ever since. But it was interesting, because at that 
same time, is my process of actually coming out or understanding 
myself, that I'm a lesbian, and I think that my chanting had a lot to 
do with that because Buddhism talks about recognizing your inner 
self. Discovering your own Buddhahood. And so I think that 
naturally was a part of that process for me. And so it's kind of 
ironic because the Soka Gakkai International is a lay organization, 
and it's just volunteers and people like me and homophobic 
people. It was a whole different realm of people in my life that I 
would not have associated with at all. Really nothing in common 
except we do this practice.  
 So it came to a point, and they  like appoint leaders of the lay 
organization and stuff and they'd never appoint me because, and 
then I finally realized, "Oh, I guess it's because I'm gay." I was 
talking to somebody, this guy and I said, "Dale, I think I'm going 
to have to quit because how can I support this organization?" And 
he goes, "Well, here's a question: Do you want homophobic people 
to chant?" And I said, "Yeah." "And practice Buddhism?" "Yeah." 
And he goes, "Well, why don't you stick around because we need 
you." For some reason, it kind of made sense. And in the  
meantime, the whole organization changed. And perhaps I had 
something to do with that, too, because I kept speaking out and 
saying this is just ridiculous.  
Raiskin:  What are the kinds of things that were heterosexist? 
Martin:  Well, there's a national newspaper that would— I even wrote a  
couple articles for that would— and a big part of it is somebody's 
experience in chanting, and they would never print an experience 
of a gay person. They would never have a gay person be a leader 
of the lay organization, not just nationally, but locally. And so I 
remember even giving an experience at a meeting in Eugene. It 
was a long time before I could outwardly say I was a  lesbian. Well, 
a long time, ten years, maybe, ’76 to—. But then slowly things 
started changing and now it's like we have a retreat center in 
Florida and they have a week-long LGBTQ retreat, and it's 
completely open now. So that's pretty cool. Yeah, that's a whole 
another— 
 It's interesting your circles of people that are in your life, there's 
your family. By the way, my family was completely supportive by 
the time I had that second long term relationship, and they were 
like, "Oh, whew, she’s  the same age." So that's always been really 
wonderful. Even my extended family from southern Oregon, it's a 
little dicey down there. That's where my mom's from. But yeah, so 
there's all these wonderful realms that you have.   
 In my experience is,  if you're out, and it's not a big deal, then 
things change. And that's I think, politically too, even though these 
are scary times. The impact of one person, to one person, I think is 
how things change. And that's what happened in our gay 
movement, isn't it? That's like the whole gay marriage thing. It's 
finally somebody said, "Hey, why can't my partner have the 
same?" And it's like that happened in my Buddhist community. It 
happened locally. It happened at the U of O. So, yeah. I'm glad I 
was in Eugene.  
Raiskin:  How did you experience the marriage?  
Martin:  Wow. Gosh, I suppose I could sum it up by saying that in my 
Buddhist community, even when they were slightly open, it's like, 
"Can't we just have a commitment ceremony here at the 
community center?" "Well, no, because it's not legal." And I'm like, 
"What are you talking legal? Is it legal for us to practice 
Buddhism?" Yeah, but they just couldn't grasp it. And then they 
finally said, "Yes," but I had broken up with— it’s like also at the U 
of O. Some people worked in the Union for same sex benefits, 
which was a very big deal for me. But by the time same sex 
benefits came through, it came through before marriage, I wasn't 
in a long term relationship anymore. And then, when I was again, 
I was actually on her insurance because when I had quit to take 
care of my dad, my partner had moved to Eugene and I was on 
her insurance.   
 So it's kind of like, "I never got to do that." So I made a 
determination with my Buddhist group. It's like, "Okay, I'm going 
to get married here in this community center. And it's not only 
going to be legal in Oregon, it's going to be legal in the country. 
And I'm not going to do it until that happens." And it happened. I 
wasn't sure. I mean, oh, my God, it actually happened. I'm glad we 
did it. So because who knows what's going to happen now, but we 
had a really, really wonderful ceremony.  
Raiskin: When was that?  
Martin:  That's funny because we were trying to remember like every 
lesbian, you have about five different anniversaries. We met, we 
first got together, we moved in, we bought a house, maybe you 
had a commitment ceremony, maybe you got married in Canada. 
Maybe you got married in the March on Washington, maybe, like 
all these. So, you can't keep track of them. So, luckily Pat, my 
wonderful wife, she remembered that our anniversary is August 
23rd. But we couldn't— We'd have to look up what year it was. I 
think it's been about three— 
Raiskin:  In 2015, it passed federally.  
Martin:  Okay. Well, so we must have jumped right in there then. Yeah, 
maybe. Okay.  Well, that's good to know.  
Raiskin:  And how long have you been together?   
Martin:  Oh, probably ten, twelve  years. Actually, we got together at a big 
party for Vicki's fortieth birthday, because she's fifty something, 
right? Yeah, she's the baby of WYMPROV!  She's probably one of 
your younger interviews, right?  Yeah, she's been a firecracker. So 
yeah. The marriage thing has been really wonderful, actually. My 
wife, Pat, I gave you a little sense of her background, which is 
Native American.  She actually is from Canada and grew up on a 
reservation, and probably had as much of an opposite childhood. 
For me, it was awful. I don't know how she survived the violence,  
the abuse, the poverty, I just— I don't know how. But here she is 
and I was totally psyched about calling somebody my wife, but 
she was not.  
 So I said, "Look, I'm going to introduce you as my wife, okay?" 
And she goes, "Okay, but I'm not sure I'm going to do the same." I 
said, "That's fine. You do whatever you want. I'll introduce you as 
my wife." But I don't have a problem with people that aren't into 
marriage or— It's an interesting— It happened fast, didn't it? Like, 
okay, this is going to be the focus. It just happened. And it kind of 
made sense in an interesting way once it all happened. So people 
that don't want to call somebody their wife or husband, that's fine. 
But I had no idea how much easier it would be. You're on the 
phone, you're talking to insurance, you're talking, whatever. It's 
like, "Oh, my wife will be home." It's such shorthand for, "Oh yeah, 
this person lives here and they're responsible and they know 
everything about the car or whatever." It's an amazing shorthand 
that I have really enjoyed.   
Long:  Have you ever had any strange reactions though?  
Martin:  No. Well, I can say I'm kind of naive. And it's like, "Here's my 
wife," and maybe behind my back they go, "What?!" I don't know. 
No, I haven't. I haven't. It's been great even talking to somebody 
from Topeka  or something on the phone. Also, there's just a little 
bit of, "Okay. I'm making another little step. I'm talking about my 
wife." Yeah, so that's cool. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  How long has your partner, Pat, lived in— your  wife, lived in 
Eugene?  
Martin:  She was in Portland when we met. And when we started getting 
serious, she moved down. So, what did we decide? Vicki was fifty. 
She's fifty something maybe. She's probably been here about ten 
years, but she actually went to the U of O way back when  also. Got 
her bachelor's and  went back to Portland. So yeah.  Her family's all 
in Portland.  
Raiskin:  So you've been retired now for ten years?  
Martin: Yeah, yeah.  
Raiskin:  What have you been doing and how do you see the future?  
Martin:  Well, that's interesting. It's amazing how being retired can just 
suck up your time like a sponge. It's like I had all these projects. I 
was going to make movies. It's so accessible now and when I 
bought this nice video camera and you can edit everything on 
computer, and I found  out that I'm kind of too anal  to edit. It takes  
me forever. And so I haven't really done the film projects. 
Actually, I filmed the second to the last Willamette Valley Folk 
Festival. I filmed everything. I filmed every act. I filmed every 
workshop. I haven't even looked at that footage. That's a while 
ago, too. So, that being said, WYMPROV!  still took up a lot of time. 
And it's interesting that you should ask that because WYMPROV!  
deciding not to perform happened at the drop of a penny.  
 It was kind of amazing. Maybe they told you the story but we 
were like getting ready for a show. We were like okay, we had to 
start getting ready for our doing— we were doing about one show 
a year at OCT, Oregon Contemporary Theater. They have a 
wonderful theater, they're very supportive. They'll give us a dark 
night. And okay, let's get ready for a show. And Vicki was kind of 
like, "Oh, gosh, our last show was so good. Maybe we should just 
call it quit while we're ahead," And I'm like, "What?" Because I was 
like, Gosh, this is going to be cool because we're going to be sixty-
five and older,  except for Vicki. Sixty-five and older women on 
stage performing. I mean, you don't see that, right? I thought this 
could be a whole new chapter, old lesbians being visible and 
performing and it's like we have a lot of lesbian stuff, but not very 
much old lesbian stuff, right?  
 That's true in general of women and even aging  in general. It's 
really— it's not out there. As a lesbian, having something visible in 
your society makes such a huge difference. Oh my gosh, I was 
what? Twenty-seven  before I even like, "Oh, I like women." That's  
because there was nothing in my environment. So, the idea of 
having, even locally, these old lesbians perform, I was very excited 
about that stage. Because Sally and Enid had just retired and I was 
retired and Vicki's not but she's always kind of been our baby 
sister. I was very excited about it.  And then all sudden, Vicki kind 
of mentioned this and then— I can remember Sally, Enid. Enid 
said, "Yeah, maybe we should call it good." I never thought Sally 
would want to not be in the spotlight. But Sally  goes, “Yeeh...” 
And I  go, "Well, in improv, you  always say “Yes.” And go with the 
flow.  So it's like, okay, I guess that's okay.  
 And so we had all these rehearsal times on our calendars. And so 
we said, "Let's just play Mahjong instead." Oh my God, we are so 
loving that. You know something? Performing and being 
WYMPROV!, it took a lot. That's a lot of energy. It's a lot of 
preparation. It's a lot of time. It was kind of a relief. But, speaking 
of getting to your question, I really want to do something creative. 
It's like, WYMPROV!  really  played a big part of my life. I like 
being creative. I mean, that's why I went into theater at the U of O. 
In high school I was in the theater group and all that kind of stuff. 
And so I don't know where that's going to go yet. But I'm 
definitely going to want to do something creative and be out there. 
I guess I'll just have to be the— Gosh, how old am I? Say fifty-one 
but December to the minus one, six. I'm sixty-six. It's hard when 
you're born in December. Are you born— you can't, you can never 
like just subtract the year. It's just this little window, you know? 
So, yeah, so I'll look forward to seeing, "Okay, what's that going to  
be now for me?" because improv is, uh— it allows you to be 
confident in your own creativity. Because when you're standing in 
front of an audience and you don't know what you're going to do, 
until the time comes, you have to be confident in your own 
creativity.  
Raiskin:  What would you like? What would you— how would you like to 
be living in fifteen, twenty  years?  
Martin:  I just hope I'm still ambulatory and feeling good. Because the 
sixties have been kind of challenging health-wise. And yeah, I'm 
confident in— we’re  trying to get Pat retired. So I hope we're 
retired together. I hope that creativity, whatever that is, is 
happening and that it's filling that need in my life to be creative. I 
hope I'm still playing Mahjong with the “WYMPs  “ 
Raiskin:  You've had such a long relationship with young people and such a 
respectful one of their creativity and their interests. If you could 
imagine a young person watching this video or whatever it's going 
to be, and listening to you about your life, is there any piece of 
advice or thought you would want to give them?  
Martin:  Yeah, the first thing that comes to my mind is be your own person. 
Its like— And I have no idea what that's going to be. That's what's 
exciting. It's like— actually, I was just at a Buddhist meeting  last 
night and talking to some— I said, "Oh, my God, I'm going to be 
giving this interview  tomorrow because I'm an old lesbian," and 
they're like laughing and we're also laughing about being in this  
Buddhist group for so long. And there's this big conference 
happening in September for the young people in the Buddhist 
group. We're trying to get 50,000 people across the country to go to 
this conference. We were talking about, when they come back, 
what is it going to be like and how will they change our Buddhist 
organization?  
 How exciting that is because they will change things. And that's 
why I say any advice, no, I don't have any advice. I'm just excited 
to see what they're going to do. Because I'm sure it is completely 
beyond my imagination, what they're going to do, and I'm so 
confident that they're going to do it. They’re— I'm sure there's 
no— Well, I shouldn't say that.  There will be obstacles trying to 
hold them back. I was going to say there's no holding them back. 
I'm sure they can overcome the obstacles that are going to try and 
hold them back, especially now, but we'll be there, right? We'll be 
there. Telling them, yeah,  go for it.  
Raiskin: Is there anything we left out that you would like— 
Martin:  I don't think so. I'm sure I'll think about something but— 
Raiskin: It's been such a pleasure. 
Long:  Yes, thank you very much.  
Martin:  Oh, you're welcome. My pleasure.  
  
[END OF INTERVIEW]  