 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian oral history 
project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and 
University Archives. This is an oral history interview with  
Saro Hendrickson on August 20, 2018, taking place in the 
University of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio in the Center 
for Media and Educational Technologies. The interviewers are 
Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ 
Special Collections and University Archives  and Professor 
Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, Gender and 
Sexuality Studies. Saro, please let us know if you agree to be 
recorded for this project, and that you give your permission 
for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Hendrickson:  Sure.    
Long:  Okay. Thank you.  
Hendrickson:  I do.  
Long:  All right. Let's see. Why don't we just begin with some basic 
questions? Can you please tell us where you were born, where 
you grew up and something about your early background?  
Hendrickson:  I was born in Central California, near Davis, California to a 
university family. I grew up being a tomboy and climbing 
trees, and riding bicycles, and being a science nerd.  
Long:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  Did you have siblings?  
Hendrickson:  I had two younger siblings, both a brother and a sister.  
Raiskin:  And what was your education like when you were young?  
Hendrickson:  When I was young, I went to public school and I had fun with 
it. I did great.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel part of the crowd?  
Hendrickson:  No, no, no, I was too smart, and too tomboy-ey and too nerdy 
to do that. But I loved being in the woods, and I loved 
scouting and backpacking, caving, rock climbing, all the 
things we could when we got outside.  
Raiskin:  What kind of friends did you have in high school?   
Hendrickson:  Couple of close women friends and a gang we hung around 
with that was a small group. My books were my friends.  
Raiskin:  What were you reading then?  
Hendrickson:  Early on I would read wonderful kid lit escape stories about 
the pioneer boy who would save the wagon train from 
whatever danger came along. Science, lots and lots and lots of 
science.  
Raiskin:  Were you thinking about your sexuality at the time in high 
school?  
Hendrickson:  In later high school, yes. Yes, camp counselors were very 
attractive.  
Long:  What was that experience like?  
Hendrickson:  Well, as a youngster I always had a guy alter ego, that was the 
other person, and a good friend of mine reminded me that I 
was always the boy, and she was the girl who was disguised 
as a boy when we would go rescue the castle from the evil 
whatever it was, or play whatever games we were playing. I 
think sexuality happened late to me. I was pretty, pretty 
oblivious about sex, I knew about chromosomes, and meiosis, 
and fertilization, but I didn't get that anything happened in 
bed besides the sperm sneaking through the sheets somehow 
into the other occupant. I came out at Girl Scout camp the year 
after I graduated from high school.   
Raiskin:  And what were your feelings about that at the time?  
Hendrickson:  Overwhelming, and delightful and right. It was the thing to 
do. She was my first true love and we were together for four 
years.  
Long:  Was that a counselor or was that a— 
Hendrickson:  That was another counselor.  
Long:  I see. So you were a counselor when this happened? When 
you came out?  
Hendrickson:  Yes, yes.  
Long:  And where was that?  
Hendrickson:  That was— oh, for heaven's sakes, that would be the foothills 
of California. Camp  Timber Tarn. 
Long:  Okay. 
Hendrickson:  And there were a number of other counselors who in 
retrospect, were lesbian, too, who would find ways without 
saying us, to advise us to be more discreet and more careful. 
We, Susie, my lover-companion, and I didn't find any other 
gay people. We didn't use the “L word” back in the mid '60s. It  
just— we didn't say, we'd whisper “gay women.” But lesbian 
kind of that was a clinical word and we didn't use it. This was 
before, really before active feminism and when bars— I went 
to graduate— went to undergraduate school at Berkeley, and  
she was a nursing student in San Francisco. So we spent a lot 
of time across the Bay Bridge, and found the one lesbian bar in 
San Francisco, which was— that culture then, there were 
butches and there were femmes and that's what you had to be 
one of.  
Long:  So you went to undergraduate school at UC Berkeley?  
Hendrickson:  I did.  
Long:  Okay.  
Hendrickson:  I did. And that decision I made in part at that point because I 
knew I was weird, lesbian. I didn't want, I'd been accepted at 
some better schools too, but they were smaller and I was 
afraid there would be too much light shone on my personal 
life. So Berkeley was somewhere where I felt I could hide in 
the midst.  
Long:  Okay, what year was it when you entered undergraduate 
school?  
Hendrickson:  Sixty-four. 
Long:  Okay.  
Hendrickson:  Nineteen sixty-four. 
Raiskin:  So what was the bar, was it Maud’s? 
Hendrickson:  Say?   
Raiskin:  What was the bar?  
Hendrickson:  Wasn't Maud’s, it was the one before Maud’ s. It was right up 
there on the Haight though, across the street from where 
Maud’s was. It was before softball. I went into the bar across 
the street when I first tried to— I figured out I was going to go 
to a bar and I had my ID, and then I had my hat. And I went 
into the bar and I ordered my scotch and water and chatted 
with the guy at the bar. And after a good chat and a drink, he 
said, "Honey, the girls' bar is across the street." He was very, 
very sweet. That was a long time ago. That was a long time 
ago. 
Raiskin:  Were you worried  about bar raids at the time?  
Hendrickson:  Say again?  
Raiskin:  Were you worried about bar raids?  
Hendrickson:  No, no. Not at that point and not in San Francisco. Probably I 
was just being naive.  
Raiskin:  And how would you dress when you went to the bar?  
Hendrickson:  A lot like I dress now. Levi's, Levi jacket, cute hat, boots. I had 
a motorcycle stage in there, too, that was fun.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about lesbians and what was your 
attitude about being gay?   
Hendrickson:  Well, this is what I was, and those who are my people, and 
that was how to do it. So it was a wonderful affirmation to be 
able to go to a restaurant and be asked to taste the wine, and 
be able to be with my companion as a real couple. But it was 
hard, it wasn't anything that I could do  with anyone else. And 
the other lesbians that we met tended to be very, very, very 
paranoid about being involved with anybody other under 
twenty-one. We went to a Daughters of Bilitis presentation, 
who were those two wonderful women?  
Long:  Del Martin and— 
Hendrickson:  Martin and Phyllis Lyon gave a wonderful presentation. And I 
remember saying, “Oh, here's somebody.” And they would 
have nothing to do with us. They were rude, they just would 
not have anything to do with us because we were too young. 
And they were properly afraid for themselves about 
connecting, being thought of, I guess, connecting with minors, 
or having some legal hassle. But it was, kind of, ah, this is icky 
we can't do it. I had, we had some relationships with some 
high school teachers who were also lesbian, who were in a, in 
retrospect, kind of unhealthy lifestyle of having affairs with 
their students and ex-students. And that was interesting, and 
kind of sexy, and hot, and fun, but it wasn't right. It just didn't 
feel right.  
Raiskin:  Where did the Daughters of Bilitis meet?   
Hendrickson:  They were in San Francisco. This was a presentation that they 
gave in Berkeley that we went to.  
Long:  Were you out to your family at this point?  
Hendrickson:  Oh, no. oh, no.  
Long:  What was your family like? 
Hendrickson:  My family is, oh my family. My family's in their heads, they're 
wonderful people. My parents are gone now. I had math 
teacher mother and a historian father, and they were quite 
supportive of me being a backpacker, a tomboy. But I 
remember my  dad bought me a bottle of perfume, which he 
gave to me after I'd come back from a particularly smelly 
backpacking trip. Just sort of like, "Can't you be a girl 
darling?"  
Long:  Did you ever come out to them?  
Hendrickson:  Eventually, yeah. When my current partner was pregnant 
with our second son, we went home and I said something to 
the effect of “Mom, we need to have a talk.” And she said, 
"Oh, dear, you're going to tell me aren't you?" And then she 
changed the subject. That was just— we didn't talk about that 
sort of thing in our family. Respectability was assumed and I 
would get  dressed in the dresses and the— the girls’ stuff for 
the midsixties  when I went to talk to professors, or when I was 
in the world and I did science things in San Francisco, and got  
a scholarship to do some cardiac surgery assistant things at 
Pacific Medical Center, which was really wonderful. But there 
were two “me's.” There was the one that would dress up to be 
respectable and then there was the other me that was in the 
clothes— the jeans I was comfortable with. In retrospect, that 
was a mistake. It would have been much better  to be me, just 
me from the get-go and forget trying to make other people 
happy. That thing keeps going through my life.  
Raiskin:  Well, it was also probably hard to be a woman in medical— 
Hendrickson:  It was hard to be a woman in science and going into science at 
that point.  
Long:  How did you dress up as a woman when you did that?  
Hendrickson:  Blouses and skirts, pantyhose, nice shoes.  
Raiskin:  Did you know you wanted to be a doctor when you were an 
undergraduate?  
Hendrickson:  I did. Actually, my lover was a nurse and at one point, I 
thought I was going to be a math teacher. And she said, and I 
was thinking, well, maybe I could be a nurse. And she said, 
"No, no, no, no, you got to be the doctor." She knew me too 
well.  
Raiskin:  Why did you think that that role fit you?   
Hendrickson:  Because I've been bossy all my life. I just know how things are 
supposed to be done. I used to know how things were 
supposed to be done, and now I'm finding out how they really 
are done.  
Raiskin:  When you were a student at UC Berkeley, did you find any 
gay community on campus? 
Hendrickson:  There wasn't a gay community.  We found a couple of friends, 
including some wonderful dykes who said they had 
transcended all that, who hadn't really come out but were. 
There wasn't the gay community.  
Raiskin:  No, and there wasn't women's studies?  
Hendrickson:  There wasn't anything, no, no.  
Long:  Well, it was even before  Stonewall.  
Hendrickson:  This is before Stonewall.  When I applied to medical school 
was 1968 and the Civil Rights Act that let women into higher 
education was 1970. And when I was admitted to medical 
school, we had some connection with the University of 
Washington where I had also applied.  My dad had a professor 
friend who walked over to the med school and said, "What 
about Sally?" I was Sally then, "What about Sally's 
application? What's going on here?" I still think they wanted 
to see me go all the way to  the east coast, which was where I  
did go. I'm gesturing all over the places, is that going to be 
okay.  
Raiskin:  It's okay.  
Hendrickson:  And the response was, "Oh, her record is fine, she's  got superb 
scores and all that." I was good at being smart, that was— I'd 
always been good at a test results. "But, we've met our quota 
for girls." That was it.  
Raiskin:  I wonder what that quota was?  
Hendrickson:  Well, it wasn't very many. I went to the University of 
Pennsylvania where there were nine women admitted out of a 
class of 150.  
Long:  So, just to go back for a second, what did you study at 
Berkeley? What did you get your degree?  
Hendrickson:  I was a biologist. I— 
Raiskin:  And so what was that experience like being one of nine in 150?  
Hendrickson:  Was complicated  for me by that time because I was trying to 
be straight. My girlfriend had fallen in love with an Irishman 
on our trip to Europe after college, and I was thinking, maybe 
this was a phase and can I really be a real doctor and be 
lesbian the way I thought you had to be to be? Well, to be a 
gay woman. We were hardly ever saying “lesbian” at that 
point, although there was a little bit of women's movement.  
But I was so busy dealing with microbiology, that I missed it. I 
missed a lot of it. I remember being criticized for, by some of 
my women classmates, for objecting to nudie slides as part of 
the orthopedics lecture. I didn't think that was right that they 
should have Playboy  pinups to show you what the hip looked 
like. And I told the professor so, and my colleague said, "Oh 
no, no, no, no, you will get a reputation for losing our sense of 
humor." And I had lost mine long before but, it was hard, it 
was hard. It was hard to be straight because I wasn't.  
Raiskin:  Did you have relationships or find other gay people in 
medical school?  
Hendrickson:  No, no. I don't know that there were any. There weren't many 
women, there were two women I can remember who served 
as mentors for the women medical students, one of whom was 
actually a real snob, and the other one just really needed lots 
of people to like her. So it was hard.  
Raiskin:  Was that a lonely time for you then?  
Hendrickson:  Pardon?  
Raiskin:  Was that a lonely time for you?  
Hendrickson:  It was kind of lonely and kind of crazy, and I did medical 
student-ing and I went hiking on the Appalachian Trail, and 
found the Pine Barrens, and then I came back to Oregon, and 
found a husband. I figured, okay find a husband, he's a  
graduate student, this is right, this will make my life right. I 
won't have to do that anymore. Ha! 
Long:  Can we just pause for a second, I think— 
Hendrickson:  You want to pause for a moment to figure out— 
Long:  Yeah, just for clarification, when you said that perhaps you 
were going through a phase, was that a phase of being a 
lesbian? Did you think you could be straight?  
Hendrickson:  I thought I could be, I really thought I could be straight and 
that that was the only way to be in the world, and that lesbian 
was just too weird.  
Long:  Okay.  
Hendrickson:  Listen to me, I mean it's kind of shameful to admit to because 
it's a— Well, internalized homophobia is incredibly powerful. 
And internalized respectability, I think is powerful in the 
same way. Respectability and classism, because I'm going to 
talk a little about classism and class stuff later because I've 
been thinking about classism as one of the themes here. The 
way we get raised to assume that there's only one way of 
being how we were raised. And then how do we unlearn that 
as a process? So, I was quite convinced that being a lesbian 
was a phase and it was interesting, and now I was going to be 
straight and have my 2.5 children, and a graduate student 
husband and a proper job.   
Raiskin:  Where did you meet the graduate student?  
Hendrickson:  In Eugene.  
Raiskin:  So you finish medical school— 
Hendrickson:  Didn't finish medical school. Had a terrible first year medical 
school, drove back to the West Coast, wanted to find the West 
Coast, visited my brother who was going to school here, met 
my ex-husband  here in Eugene on that trip. And then we 
courted each other across the country, and up and down to 
California, and ended up being married for ten years.  
Raiskin:  Did you know that Eugene had a sizable lesbian community 
when you came here?  
Hendrickson:  Nah. I don't— did it in 1969?  
Raiskin:  Maybe not?  
Long:  Well, no, it was developing at that time.  
Hendrickson:  Yeah.  
Long:  Yeah. Yeah. Because we have interviewed some people who 
were students at UO at that time.  
Hendrickson:  Yeah.  
Long:  Yeah, yeah.   
Hendrickson:  There were lots of hippies, it was a very comfortable place to 
be. It was the West Coast, it wasn't the East Coast, and I was 
definitely somebody who wanted mountains and the West. 
Raiskin:  So how did you continue your studies?  
Hendrickson:  How did I get to?  
Raiskin:  How did you continue your education?  
Hendrickson:  We went back to Philadelphia and I finished medical school 
and postgraduate training there. And then we eventually got 
back to Eugene.  
Long:  What did your husband do?  
Hendrickson:  He was a  sociologist. He studied health  sociology, and 
numbers. And he had been gay so we figured that would lend 
an interesting understanding to the relationship, and what it 
did was doom the sexual relationship it was just, just didn't 
work. But we got a baby out of it.  
Raiskin:  So, you married knowing that each other had a gay history?  
Hendrickson:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  And did that help you understand each other, if not sexually, 
in other ways?  
Hendrickson:  I don't know if I could ever understand that guy, I just don't 
know.   
Raiskin:  And so you decided to have a child together?  
Hendrickson:  We had— that's what you're supposed to do, you get married 
and you have your two point some kids, so. We had James 
who was born in Eugene in 1974. After I had come back to 
Eugene and was working, I worked initially for medical 
practices as a fill-in person and then got a job at the University 
of Oregon Health Center when I was pregnant with Jamers. 
The University Health Center was where I first encountered 
Eugene's lesbian community, largely through meeting the law 
student group, you're probably talking to several of them. 
What I was told was that my name was on the bathroom wall, 
in the women's bathroom in the Law School as the go-to-see 
person at the University Health Center for women's health 
problems. I was one of only two women physicians there at 
the time, and the only young one. Lots of chit chat, lots of 
talks, lots of getting to know these folks, no self-awareness  
whatsoever about what was going on, but I really liked the 
lesbian law students that I had as patients, and got to know 
some of them very well. And, then when they weren't 
patients, got to know several couples, and their friends,  and 
their law student friends. Timing. Took me a long time to 
figure this out. Would have been '76 not '74 that  I had James.  
Long:  Seventy-six? 
Hendrickson:  It was '76 because he was four. And we, Leslie, my husband, 
and I would go camping with these lovely lesbian couples and  
we'd have great times, and we'd stay up around the campfire 
and just have a great time.  
Long:  It's sounding as if the lesbian law students had some 
awareness of you at a time when you— 
Hendrickson:  Had no awareness of me. Yeah, that's very possible. I ran for 
and was elected to the EWEB Board in 1978. My husband had 
been elected to the LCC Board at that point, and the local 
Democrats were hunting for somebody who was electable to 
replace an older guy who they didn't think was progressive 
enough. And they said, "Oh, come on, come on, you can run, 
you can run." So there's that history of that campaign. In the 
meantime, Gretchen Miller had run for the Eugene City 
Council and was a Eugene city councilor. She was also with  a, 
not husband but, essentially a husband of ten years. And she 
and I would stay up late into the night around the campfire 
talking about Northwest energy policy and what we were 
going to be doing with conservation, with conservation 
policies and so on and so forth.  
 And in 1980 I woke up from a very vivid dream and said to 
myself, “Oh.”  And life changed. That was the dream in which 
it was very clear that I was in love with her, and had been for 
several months at least. And— 
Long:  And what year was that?  
Hendrickson:  There we were. That was 1980.   
Long:  1980.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember the dream specifically?  
Hendrickson:  It was a dream, it was a very erotic, very sexual dream, and it 
was a real, oh, and life changed.  
Raiskin:  And how did that feel, that recognition?  
Hendrickson:  Well, it was there. It was very real, it was very true, it was 
very present. There's another dream coming up  in the story, 
too. I seem to— my subconscious bubbles up that way. I'm not 
sure I really have great access to it otherwise, but that's how it 
bubbles. In 1980, things had changed a bunch in Eugene, there 
was a gay community, there was a gay bar there. The  Riv was 
there. I remember going to the Riv with a couple of lesbian 
friends and coming out as an ex-lesbian to them.  
Raiskin:  Coming out as an ex-lesbian, what do you mean?  
Hendrickson:  Well sharing with them my previous history of having been 
with Susan,  and having been in gay bars in San Francisco, and 
having had that life before trying to be straight.  
Raiskin:  So that's the Riviera Room.  
Hendrickson:  That was the Riv.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that?  
Hendrickson:  Dark, bary, classic, just absolutely classic.  
Raiskin:  How did you feel compared to your experience in San 
Francisco when you were earlier in a gay  bar? 
Hendrickson:  It was a gay bar, it was comfortable, people were drinking.  
Long:  Was it a— Let's just it was a gay bar, not just lesbian bar? Or 
did the lesbians— 
Hendrickson:  You know I don't know, I didn't spend enough time at the Riv 
to know you know, you got to talk to somebody who spent 
more time there.  
Long:  I think Thursdays, somebody said Thursdays was the lesbian 
day. Something like that.  
Raiskin:  That's what we've heard.  
Hendrickson:  I'm not a, I'm sort of more a camping trip lesbian than a bar 
lesbian.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember the ballot measure about anti 
discrimination, about gays and lesbians in— 
Hendrickson:  In Eugene, the one in the late '80s.  
Raiskin:  No the— 
Hendrickson:  No late '70s, sorry.  
Raiskin:  Late '70s.  
Hendrickson:  It was late '70s, it was a local—  
Raiskin:  Fifty-one. 
Hendrickson:  —Ordinance.  
Long:  Referendum 51.  
Hendrickson:  Yeah. And I remember supporting Referendum 51, I  
remember being kind of afraid to support it too much. 
Because that might mean I was one of those people.  
Raiskin:  Yeah, yeah.  
Hendrickson:  That's that same shameful lesbian phobia, the homophobia 
making itself work. I spent way too much time and energy 
trying to be respectable.  
Raiskin:  As a doctor, did you notice lesbians coming to you specifically 
to be their practitioner?  
Hendrickson:  Yes. Yeah, I got to be the doctor for a whole bunch of lesbians. 
It happened— when I was at the University Health Center, 
definitely from the Law School and that Law School group. I 
then moved away from that after the birth of James to the 
Lane Community College Health Center where I was their 
physician for a while. They were trying to do a health center 
that was much more student oriented, and individual. That 
was at the very beginning of medicine as supposed to be 
paying attention to the patient as a whole person, and we're 
supposed to think about who they are other than just as their 
parts. And LCC's then director had been making an effort—  
she had hired some of the very first nurse practitioners in 
Oregon, to work at the Lane Health Center. And it seemed 
exciting, it seemed exciting and interesting. I ended up getting 
fired from that job because I was vociferously in support of 
one of the nurse practitioners who got herself cross-ways with  
the director. And there's that— you can do something with 
this tablecloth. There's a lovely historical piece, the front of the 
LCC student newspaper that says, "Health Center doctor 
fired." And it's got a picture of me with a big broad smile. So— 
Long:  What year was that?  
Hendrickson:  That would have been 19, oh my goodness, ‘77 maybe. And I 
don't remember gay and lesbian issues being a major issue at 
LCC, or finding the patients— just lots of good medicine, lots 
of women's medicine. And— 
Long:  That brings me to a question that I had wanted to ask.  When 
lesbian patients came to you, what were their issues that they 
wanted to— what were their health issues that they brought to 
you?  
Hendrickson:  When we were of that age our issues were simply getting a 
respectable and respectful pap smear. Understanding breast 
self-exam, understanding contraception, we didn't think a 
whole lot about prevention of sexually transmitted diseases, 
STIs at  that point. It was more a matter of education and 
respect. This is me, this is my stuff. Finding a physician, I  
think just being a doc who would talk to people. A woman 
doctor who would talk to woman people about what was 
going on, it became, when was Our Bodies Ourselves? That was 
midseventies, that first wonderful newsprint version, and I 
remember having that in the office. So, right after getting fired 
from LCC I opened— we opened a private practice in the 
downtown medical building with the nurse practitioners and 
the lab tech, and another staff member from the— several 
other staff members from the LCC clinic. We just kind of 
moved from the Lane  campus to downtown. And the practice 
was full in three months. It was something that was really 
needed, I think in Eugene at that point. And we took care of 
lesbians, and we took care of mothers, and we took care of old 
ladies, and we took care of all kinds of folks. From babies to 
grandparents. That was the golden days of medicine too, 
because we could charge $12  for an office visit, and folks 
weren't still being kept from medicine because of the costs and 
accessibility in the same way.  
Long:  Where was that office?  
Hendrickson:  That was downtown. In the medical center building that's 
right next to what used to be Quackenbush’s which is now J.  
Michaels Bookstore.  
Long:  Yeah, okay.  
Hendrickson:  Yeah, upstairs.   
Long:  On Broadway?  
Hendrickson:  Yeah. And I was there for almost three years. And we did lots 
of general medicine, I started doing abortions at that point. 
We had a gynecologist with a nearby office who helped me 
learn to do pregnancy terminations. We hadn't started making 
babies yet, that was in the early '80s, but the late '70s. It was 
clear that when I would refer my patients who had 
pregnancies that needed to not continue, that they weren't 
getting good care. That they were going to the couple of guys 
out in Bethel who just did it to make a lot of money doing it, 
or gynecologists who would be [grouchy mumbling]. And it 
felt good to be able to provide a service in a supportive way. 
Just what needed to happen. That was a great office, that was 
a lot of fun. We traded, I think I traded for more hand thrown 
pottery cups whose handles fell off in the first week than you 
can possibly imagine.  
Long:  What was the business called?  
Hendrickson:  Sarah S. Hendrickson, MD.  
Long:  Okay.  
Hendrickson:  P.C.— alphabet soup.  
Raiskin:  So this was before you came out again?  
Hendrickson:  That was before I came out again that we set up that practice. 
At the end of the '70s, I set up a  practice with Tom Jefferson  
and Scott Halpert, two family docs who were known in the 
community for being flexible, and comfortable, and had had 
individual offices, had worked for the community health 
centers, had the right politics. And the three of us bought the 
building at 572 W. Eleventh and converted that to a clinic for 
the three of us, and we practice there for the next twelve  years. 
That was West Side Medical Associates.  
Raiskin:  So there's a lot happening in this time. You move from Lane 
Community College to this other practice. You— 
Hendrickson:  Got a practice.  
Raiskin:  —some time in there dissolved your marriage and, have a 
baby and dissolved the marriage.  
Hendrickson:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Can you talk a little bit about your family life and what was 
happening as you were also doing these professional changes?  
Hendrickson:  I would come home and be a mother and a wife and just do 
what needed to be done, and I wasn't aware that there were a 
lot of changes happening in my family life, until I fell 
thoroughly in love with Gretchen and realized I wasn't going 
to do that anymore. I was doing— being a wife and mother, 
and doctor, just because that's what you did. That was a job 
and that's what I did, we did.  
Long:  What year was it when you fell in love with Gretchen?   
Hendrickson:  '80. 
Long:  1980.  
Hendrickson:  1980.  
Raiskin:  And how did the divorce go?  
Hendrickson:  Very straightforwardly. I think, in retrospect. Divorces are 
never easy but, except for the fact that he was very rigid and 
wouldn't accept anything other than 50/50 absolutely right 
down the middle and it was okay.  
Raiskin:  And custody of James?  
Hendrickson:  Custody of James was joint custody, it's one of the early joint 
custodies, we didn't argue for other financial support. In 
retrospect it went really well given the stories I've heard. At 
the time it seemed like it was difficult but— Is that okay? this 
thing it has a mind of its own.  
Raiskin:  So in retrospect, you think it went smoothly, and the— 
Hendrickson:  The dissolution— I moved into the basement. We were living 
in an old house on the west side where we still live, and still 
lived until this year. And I moved down into the basement 
and waited for Les to move out. He had kind of a wandering 
eye and had had several other sexual affairs while we were  
married, so I didn't feel as if I was leaving him in the lurch 
particularly.   
Raiskin:  And did he identify as gay again?  
Hendrickson:  No. 
Raiskin:  No? 
Hendrickson:  Not that I know of. He's had three wives since then.  
Raiskin:  And so now you opened your own practice on West 
Eleventh— 
Hendrickson:  So I opened my practice with— my own practice was 
downtown so I had a practice, then I combined with Tom and 
Scott, and we were in West Side Medical Associates on West 
Eleventh. And for those next ten years I was a doctor, and 
Gretchen's lover, and the father of, father— listen to me. See 
gendering is funny and I miss gender myself and all kinds of 
ways, going in all kinds of directions; parent  of James. 
Gretchen moved in with  me eventually, although there was a 
problem with her being elected to the City Council from 
Riverview Street in the other side of town and being 
concerned about not living in her district. So she had to live in 
her district and I lived in my corner. So there was a certain 
amount of commuting between the basement and Riverside 
Street and it— 
Raiskin:  Was she concerned about— 
Hendrickson:  But it was happiness.   
Raiskin:  Was she concerned about being out— 
Hendrickson:  Oh, not at all.  
Raiskin:  Not at all.  
Hendrickson:  Not at all, she's much less concerned about what other people 
think than I do, to her credit, to her credit. So what happened 
after 1980? It took about a year to settle down, and practice, 
being in a private practice in those days with being on call 
every third night, just has a rhythm of its own, which like a 
very, any other very intense job kind of pulls you, pulled me 
through those months and year, you just do that. We were still 
remodeling the offices. Actually, the change to the offices from 
downtown to West Side was the change from being married to 
a guy, to being with Gretchen. The two pieces came through at 
the same time. What was happening politically at that point? 
And I was going to board meetings, and she was going to city 
council meetings, and Gretchen got to be mayor for a while 
when the mayor went off to do something else.  
Long:  She was acting mayor?  
Hendrickson:  She was acting mayor for six months. So I'm married to the 
woman who used to be the acting mayor of Eugene for what 
glory that carries.  
Long:  So Referendum 51 was—  
Hendrickson:  Fifty-one was before my coming, entirely before my coming 
out with Gretchen.  
Long:  Okay, so that was 1978. So that— 
Hendrickson:  That was 1978. And I remember it happening, and I remember 
supporting it, and again, not supporting it really, really as 
much as I should have in retrospect.  
Raiskin:  So I'm thinking now you're an out lesbian physician.  
Hendrickson:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And as you say, many lesbians in Eugene start seeing you as 
their doctor.  
Hendrickson: Yeah. They were doing that already before I came out.  
Raiskin:  And you speak about the women needing respectful 
treatment, and I'm wondering whether you heard from 
lesbians about their hesitancy to see other kinds of doctors and 
why. Either men or even  straight women. What their 
experience as lesbians in the medical field is.  
Hendrickson:  I heard an awful lot of stories about people's difficult 
experiences with other doctors, no matter who they were, 
across the board. Yes, I would hear stories of disrespectful 
treatment from physicians. In specific— I would hear the story 
that if someone said they— if a woman told her physician that 
she didn't need birth control, she would be aggressively asked  
why and then given birth control anyway, because that was a 
phase, or that wasn't something that they could really know 
about themselves, or they needed birth control. My 
impression was that mostly lesbians didn't come out to their 
physicians, and their other health providers. It just wasn't a 
safe thing to do so they didn't.  
Raiskin:  And they did with you?  
Hendrickson:  They would with me. But I heard a lot of stories that I don't 
think other doctors got to hear. Not specifically the sexual 
minority stories, although those were there. I got to know that 
group of lesbians in Eugene who were already having turkey 
baster babies by themselves, and in their own way. So really, I 
stood on the shoulders of some real pioneer gals who were 
doing what needed to be done early on, without any help 
from me. And my attraction I guess, was that I had— when 
we started making babies, which would be probably early '80s 
sometime, started helping women get their babies made, was 
that we had access to sperm banks and medical care, and that 
sort of stuff that you don't always get with the turkey basters.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us a little bit about that? About the boom in 
lesbian babies that— 
Hendrickson:  The boom in lesbian babies. Think back to dates, and you guys 
are going to have to come up with the dates. Alexi, who's our 
second son, was born in 1984, and he was, he is a lesbian—  
When he was in middle school, he liked to dance around and 
say he was an immaculate conception and he would tell, he's 
that kind of kid. He is Gretchen's biological child by a known 
donor insemination in my office. And I— the process was 
fairly straightforward that I sent out the word that I was 
hunting for donors, and would do exams, and use live, 
honest-to-golly guys before we started using sperm banks and 
used the sperm bank in San Francisco as well as in L.A. Before 
Alexi, so it would have been early '80s. I made connection 
with a lesbian physician in Portland, who is an obstetrician-
gynecologist, who gave me a great deal of help with 
techniques and connections, and how to get from here to 
there. And— 
Raiskin: Were you concerned about HIV at the time?  
Hendrickson:  HIV was just starting to be a concern and it got to be a serious 
concern. And yes, we tested everybody, and we were very 
upset, and we quit using gay donors just for that reason.  
Raiskin:  Were you  also treating patients with HIV?  
Hendrickson:  Yes, yes. This was early on in HIV, and we didn't know what 
we were doing. We just had no idea. There were a couple of 
physicians in Eugene who had patients before I did. I don't 
think any of our patients got the best treatment until there 
were enough cases that we knew what needed to be done. 
And as the disease, and the knowledge about the disease  
expanded, both the biology and the sociology of what was 
going on with the HIV epidemic became much, much more 
serious. We did lots of testing, lots of counseling.  
Raiskin:  Were you affiliated with the HIV Alliance? I don't know when 
that started.  
Hendrickson:  Oh, yes. The HIV Alliance started early on, there were actually 
two sisters from the Sisters of St. Joseph of  Peace at the 
hospital who were very active with early HIV activism, and 
condom distribution. And they were funny they were just, 
they were right on, right on  women. They’re somebody else 
who's shoulders I got to boost myself up on. And I can't 
remember their names but I think someone who knows the 
sisters could probably remember. But they got Sacred Heart 
early on to contribute to disease prevention, and condom 
distribution. Planned Parenthood as well, and I spent a while 
early on being medical director for Eugene/Springfield's 
Planned Parenthood. That would have been in the '70s and 
that was another connection that I had to be able to work with, 
with HIV prevention, understanding, demystification, de-
awfulization.  
Raiskin:  Could you tell us a little about parenting? So now you've got 
two kids— 
Hendrickson:  Parenting. Now, we now have three, we have we have James 
from me, from when I was married. We have Alexi from  
Gretchen in '84 from a known donor, and we have, we tried 
hard to get me pregnant again for about four years, and that 
didn't work. So, Douglass came home from Texas after a long 
and complicated adoption story in 1988. And he is our, oh, 
here, we go again. May I put this piece up? That seems to be 
the— 
Long:  Yeah.  
Hendrickson:  Douglass came home as  an infant from Texas in '88. So we 
have three boys, and somehow we ended up with boys. 
Adoption is a whole other story and that one is interesting, 
and has interlinkings with the fundamentalist community 
which is that every ovum is a soul, and it just gets kind of 
weird. But we were very lucky, our adoption social worker 
knew about our situation with Gretchen and Sarah and the 
two boys. She wrote her home study as if it were just me 
because we adopted through the agency PLAN, which— Plan 
Loving Adoptions now, very Christian, very, very concerned. 
But they were the only agency in Oregon that would adopt to 
single women at that point, there wasn't any other legal 
adoption available.  
Raiskin:  So you needed to be closeted as you did it, but you had a 
social worker who knew the ins and outs— 
Hendrickson:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  —To help you.   
Hendrickson:  That was a very— that was like going back into the closet 
again to do that. And emotionally it was a little icky, but we 
got Douglass, so. 
Long:  So you were the person to legally adopt. 
Hendrickson:  I was the person who went to the adoption— 
Long:  Initially.  
Hendrickson:  Initially.  
Long:  Yeah, okay.  
Hendrickson:  And then then from that point on, and with Alexi, we did all 
the legal stuff and the guardianships, and having the 
passports ready to leave town if we needed to at any point, 
because we just set up the fail safes and the backups.  
Long:  So the social worker who helped you came to do a home study 
at your home?  
Hendrickson:  Yes. 
Long:  And wrote it up in a positive way. 
Hendrickson:  Right.  
Long:  Yes, okay.  
Raiskin:  What was your fear about needing to leave?   
Hendrickson:  That somebody would come for the kids. That we would lose 
our children. I think that was the biggest fear. I don't know 
whether, I think it probably wasn't a realistic fear.  
Long:  And we're coming up to Measure 8  was in, from 1987 to '88. 
So that coincided with— 
Hendrickson:  '87 to '88 coincided with the adoption.  
Long:  —The adoption of Douglass. 
Raiskin:  So it's not surprising that you felt threatened  given the kind of 
language that was being used?  
Hendrickson:  [Mumbling]. But, and life was going on and we were still 
being a doctor, and a lawyer, and living in a big house and 
raising these kids who— raising kids is not easy. Raising kids 
is harder than  anybody could possibly ever imagine. And it 
is— you get what you need, but you don't necessarily get 
what you expected. And it's been good for us, geez it's been 
good for us.  
Long:  Is Douglass white or black?  
Hendrickson:  Douglass is very black. We did not think we were going to be 
in— we didn't start out thinking, Oh, we'll adopt a black baby. 
I think my parents at one point told me they were afraid I'd 
come home married to a black man to make a point. Because I 
was that kind of kid.   
Long:  How did it turn  out that you adopted an African American 
baby?  
Hendrickson:  Our initial— my initial adoption with an overseas adoption 
agency placed me with a child who was described as having 
major developmental delays. My sister had just had a child 
with congenital heart disease, and she said— she told me 
quite clearly that it's something you cope with if you cope 
with, but if you have a choice, don't do it. And we said, "I 
don't think this is the right child for my family." The agency, 
in their inimitable way decided that I was the devil incarnate 
for not loving all children, rah, rah, rah, rah. Adoption people 
have a lot of love, they really do. And they have a lot of— they 
can make it over completely insurmountable obstacles. But I 
just couldn't imagine it. So there was a bit of this, and 
Douglass came to us because his adoption in Oregon, to an 
Oregon family, had failed for some other reason, and the 
adoption agency had him and wanted to know if we were 
interested. And it— 
Long:  Was he already in Oregon at that time then?  
Hendrickson:  No, but he had been placed— PLAN  was dealing with his 
placement and PLAN  was the Oregon agency.  
Long:  Yes. 
Hendrickson:  Adoption stories just go all over the place with hurrah and—  
Long:  Yeah. What was the agency in Texas?  
Hendrickson:  Agape. Agape. He had been born to a fourteen-year-old Texan 
mother, and fostered by a gaggle of blonde teenagers in a 
home in Texas, and he's loved blonde teenagers. Anyway, and 
I flew down to get him when he was six weeks old.  
Long:  Did PLAN  talk about— well, can you describe how PLAN  
talked about race?  
Hendrickson:  They didn't. PLAN  talked about adoption, whether it was race 
or physical problems, or mental distress, or older children, or 
hard to adopt parents, it was all just the obstacles that are put 
in front of you by God in order to surmount them with love. 
And that's just how they dealt with it.  
Raiskin:  But they were opposed to adopting to lesbians or gay men?  
Hendrickson:  Yes. Oh, yes, that just wasn't— But that was never explicit. It 
was just, it was part of the assumed background, it was 
important not to be lesbian. When we adopted Douglass by 
'88, open adoption was beginning to have some same-sex 
couples offering to adopt. And I don't know what their 
success was like.  I know that there was one lesbian couple 
from Northern Oregon who had been on their list for years, 
and hadn't had a birth mother choose them.  
Raiskin:  So you're raising three boys.  What  was the school— your 
relationship with teachers and the school?   
Hendrickson:  Oh, school teachers, raising the kids. Let me just back up one 
little bit. Having boy children made it more difficult for us to 
be part of the lesbian society that was happening.  The groups, 
the folks, country gatherings, music festivals— you can't take 
your kids because they're boys. And Gretchen and I had lives 
that were pretty immersed in the straight communities that 
we were part of when we came together. So, we weren't real 
good lesbian community members, we were there and 
supportive, but I don't think we ever felt quite as much of the 
community as we might have. We did have bib overalls 
though, and I think at some point we wore them. But, what 
was it like having the kids? We sent the— the boys when they 
were little went to progressive preschools, and I think, Unity 
School,  for example. And they were happy to have us. There 
wasn't a problem at all. They were happy to have a little black 
boy in their school.  
 Both the younger boys went to the Spanish bilingual program, 
which was over in Coburg Road, which is a little more 
conservative, I think. But our approach was simply to be 
polite and assume that everyone was going to be polite. And if 
they weren't going to be polite to us, that was just their 
problem, not ours. Alexi, who's the one who liked to have the 
immaculate conception has always been an in your face kind 
of guy, and he's had no problem with it. Douglass, I think had 
to deal with as much racism as homophobia. I'm sure they 
weren't invited to birthday parties, but they had each other to  
say, "We didn't want to get invited to that birthday party 
anyway." And we never ran into anything majorly icky. I 
imagine there was a lot of major ickiness happening around 
here, but we made like we didn't hear it. We never had to deal 
with overt problems.  
 The most overt discrimination that we experienced was in 
Eugene's black community, who wanted nothing to do with us 
even though we had had Douglass. We tried connecting with 
the NAACP, and we tried going to a couple of black churches, 
and it was quite clear that we weren't going to be welcome 
back. Never, never explicitly and in so many words, but we 
never got called when we put our names down on the 
volunteer lists, and it was just— and at one point the NAACP 
went through the nonsense of making sure that only one 
person in the household was the real member, and if you 
weren't married, then you had to pay for two memberships 
and it was just— Gretchen was in the late '80s, early '90s was 
on the Eugene Human Rights Commission as a kind of an 
outgrowth of the city council work that she'd done. And she's 
really very much calmer than I am, and very much less 
reactive, and quite capable of chairing meetings with 
opposing vociferous viewpoints.  
 And they went to Sheldon High School as part of a school 
anti-racism, anti-gay bias effort that happened as a settlement  
from a school court case, you should ask her those questions. 
Do we need to hurry up? You keep looking at your watch?  
Long:  No. 
Hendrickson:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  She's just marking down when you say something.  
Hendrickson:  Okay, that won't hurt.  
Raiskin:  And could you scoot forward a little bit into the light?  
Hendrickson:  Sure, sure.  I just keep wanting this tablecloth.  
Long: It's the cloth that's  the problem.  
Hendrickson:  And the then principal, vice principal at Sheldon who was 
Arabella [Abrella] Luvert, and I don't know much about, if 
you know much about politics around here, but she was the 
wife of “Mr. NAACP” for about twenty  years. Very, very 
devoted community members, strong black community 
activists with a very strong conviction that homosexuality was 
wrong. They were good, respectable folks. And her response 
was that there weren't any gay students at Sheldon because 
they would know. "We know all our children, we  don't have 
any gay students.  It simply isn't an issue for us." So, I think 
that was where we saw the most overt rejection. My 
professional colleagues, to their credit, when I came to Eugene 
as a woman physician, there were groups of physicians, even  
your old-conservative-Republican-kind of doctor surgeons 
who treated me as a colleague and treated me very  
professionally, and correctly. And after I came out, they 
continued to treat me professionally and correctly. But I was 
also very careful that it never became an issue. I don't know. I 
was their colleague, and that's how we functioned. So, I guess 
I was lucky, I think if I  had experienced more overt in-my-face 
problems I would have been noisier. And again I was busy, 
and maybe a little bit hesitant, too. 
Long:  Were you involved with the ballot measures? Ballot Measure 8 
and Ballot Measure 9?  
Hendrickson:  Ballot Measure 9, yes, we were very involved in 9. I think with 
8 we had babies happening.  
Raiskin:  Can you remember what it was like that Measure 9, within the 
community?  
Hendrickson:  I remember Measure  9, it seemed as if there  was a— maybe 
because we had finally become seriously involved in the 
political activity, there seemed to be more hope and energy 
that we were actually fighting the fight that needed to be 
done, rather than having it being fought at  us. Douglass’ first 
words that he ever read were at a rally and he was looking up 
at the sign and he said, "Mom, mom, that says, ‘No on 9’."  
Raiskin:  And so you were not so involved with the lesbian community 
because of your professional life, because of not being feeling 
accepted in the lesbian community, did the political— 
Hendrickson:  Just the boys.  
Raiskin:  Just the boys. Did you have support of lesbians in the 
community?  
Hendrickson:  I think so. I never felt nonsupport. 
Raiskin:  Did you have social activities with other lesbians in the 
community?  
Hendrickson:  Yeah. We've had good lesbian friends for a long time, mostly 
lawyers. Gretchen had her group of lesbian lawyers whom 
you will be meeting a whole bunch of. And there weren't any, 
there weren't even other women doctors  hardly in Eugene. 
There was Emily Fergus, who was an older nephrologist, who 
is very supportive and delightful, and two psychiatrists. And 
there weren't any other women physicians until about the 
mid-eighties, and I  don't think lesbian physicians— that I 
don't know them. They didn't seem to think— that connection 
didn't get made. Always lots of— the lesbian friends we had 
were good, we were happy, we weren't feeling the loss of 
community. Although I did find the National Lesbian Doctors 
group that call themselves The Women in Medicine in '84, the 
year Lexi was born.   
 Gretchen had said, "Look, I've got the lawyers, you need to go 
talk to the doctors," and I did. And that was a great support 
for us when we had the kids, and during the '80s and early 
'90s. We went to most of their yearly meetings here, there and 
everywhere, and had a wonderful time. Alexi, the in-your-face 
guy— you know, in Eugene the middle school students do a 
heritage project and there's a cultural fair, and, you know, my 
Slavic grandmother's quilts, or  my musical history. And he 
did— his idea— “My intentional Gay and Lesbian Family.” So 
he had us and the two gay guys who were living in the garage 
apartment next to our house, who were wonderful, wonderful 
friends, and who taught Alexi how to ski, and just connected 
with  us. And Lex did this thing and— what was the paper at 
that point? The— 
Long:  The Register? 
Hendrickson:  —queer paper. No, no it wasn't the Register Guard  it was— 
Long:  The Lavender Network? 
Hendrickson:  Wasn't Lavender  and it was gay and lesbian together. He got 
an article in that little newsprint thing, and the bus driver 
recognized him and he just thought this was great. But he and 
his buddy, there's Monroe Middle School, which is where the 
Spanish program went was— yeah, Lexi  did have a little bit of 
trouble— well, kind of conservative. And the jocks would 
usually hang out under the cedar tree in the front waiting for  
the buses or whatever, because that was the only dry place. 
And Lex and his buddy at that point would hold hands and 
sidle up to underneath the tree, and all the jocks would 
disappear and they'd get to stay dry. So, he organized that. 
That was also the year where he was being— he had long hair 
and was just very, very middle school, God, he was in your 
face. He's wonderful.  
 He was being teased in the classroom and the teacher moved 
him to a different table. And Gretchen, who was doing the 
school thing at the time went to talk to the teacher and said, 
"Yeah, what about this? And isn't this a wonderful teaching 
opportunity? Can't we use this as an opportunity  in the  
classroom?" The teacher's response was, "That's in the 
curriculum for next year." But Lex, I don't think he was ever 
harmed any.  
Long:  Okay.  
Hendrickson:  It sort of— 
Long:  You know, this is a background question, but I don't think we 
ever clarified what you specialized in in medical school, was it 
gynecology?  
Hendrickson:  I specialized in family medicine, partly because I was really 
tired of the east coast and didn't want to stay there for further 
training, partly because I thought it was good work. And I 
don't think I made that decision within any sexual minority  
stuff, except that family medicine was a good thing to be in. 
Family medicine was just becoming a specialty in those years, 
you could be a specialized GP and get board certification, and 
take exams and pay more monies, and have more letters after 
your name.  
Raiskin: What did you do after the private practice on West Eleventh? 
Hendrickson:  Private practice on West Eleventh. I left that in the early '90s 
for just lots of reasons. Family growing apart, this that and the 
other. Gretchen went back to work full time, I got to be the 
half timer. I did fill ins, locum tenens work. I did— I was 
appointed— I was lucky enough to be appointed for a term to 
the Oregon Board of  Medical Examiners, the licensing and 
disciplinary board for docs and Pas—physician's assistants—
acupuncturists in Oregon during Barbara Roberts' 
gubernatorial  term because Barbara ran— you recall was 
elected with a lot of help from the gay and lesbian community, 
and with absolutely no help from the Oregon Medical 
Association. And so it's to say “nyeh” to the  Oregon Medical 
Association, which I had not joined, and wasn't an AMA 
member for all the proper political reasons, as they were a 
bunch of conservative so and so's. Although they've all come 
around remarkably to be legitimate activists for the right 
causes. I was able to be appointed to the board for a term. And 
then we got a new— we got Kitzhaber, and he appointed 
somebody else, thank goodness because it was exhausting  
work. But that was fascinating. We didn't run into gay and 
lesbian work— there was a gay physician who'd also been— 
Jim Samson, from Portland, who'd been appointed to the 
board at the same time. And there was only one case I can 
remember of a gay doc who had been accused by a patient of 
inappropriate behavior, and it was treated just like every other 
case. And he hadn't been real careful with his boundaries, but 
it wasn't predatory. Side comment:  when I was appointed to 
the board, one of those older docs that I'd known for ages, I 
had called up because he was an LMA guy, and I wanted to 
kind of mend some of my background with him. He said, "Oh, 
Sarah," he said, "you will just be amazed at what you see at 
the board."  
 And I thought he's being condescending, and saying, okay. 
And I went to the board and I was just amazed at what I saw 
in terms of stupid people with otherwise intelligent brains 
doing incredible things. Road rage, violations of boundaries, 
violations of sexual boundaries all over the place, it just— And 
that was a period where we were starting— we as a profession 
were starting to be real clear about boundaries which is, 
“Thou shalt not fish off the company dock.” You just do not 
have sex with your patients. And that was a major cultural 
shift for a lot of doctors to accommodate to and I'm glad we 
did it, needed to be done.  
Raiskin:  You had referred to another dream that you had.   
Hendrickson:  Oh, the other dream. The other dream is my post retirement 
dream of coming out as a transgender man. And that dream 
happened three years ago.  
Raiskin:  You want to tell us about that?  
Hendrickson:  You want to do fast forward to that. You're leaving out a lot of 
life in there.  
Raiskin:  All right well— 
Hendrickson:  Fast forward— 
Long:  Let's go back.  
Raiskin:  Yeah let's go back. We'll save that.  
Hendrickson:  Okay. Okay, so we've made it  to the '90s and I'm doing fill-in 
work here and there, and not working as hard as I was as a 
primary care doc. And being on the Board of Medical 
Examiners, going back to graduate school to get a Master's in 
Public Health. I started working for Lane County  Public 
Health in 1999 as the medical officer for the county, the 
County Health Officer. This was the job that Dave White had 
before me. And this is the doc who deals with county 
programs that have to do with— I don't know what are the 
county programs? Birth control, STIs, communicable diseases, 
sanitation, the good stuff, the right stuff. And I did that for ten 
years, that was a half-time-plus position that I filled in on the 
rest of it and I enjoyed that. I got to work with nurse  
practitioners and with a number of people and I also got an 
eyeful of bureaucracy and how inefficient bureaucracy can be 
compared to the private sector, which I wasn't expecting to 
notice. And philosophically I'm a public sector person, and to 
see the inefficiencies was kind of disappointing. Did it involve 
any issues about— Yes, we dealt a lot with HIV, we dealt a lot 
with disease prevention. I worked also as the director for the 
Methadone Clinic for a while, as well as working for White 
Bird and their drug treatment program, saw more of that. Was 
there a predominance of sexual minority, gay, lesbian, 
otherwise folks involved in drugs stuff? I don't think so. I 
know that I heard from at least one lesbian client that they 
were very reluctant to enter treatment because there wasn't 
sensitivity to their situation. Always hard to tell whether the 
sensitivity is on the part of the patient, or the program, or 
both, or what? When life gets that dysfunctional, inter-
wrinkled.  
Raiskin:  Your insights about class: does it come from this work, this 
public health work?  
Hendrickson:  Public health work primarily and my own experience. So I  
think my some of my reluctant— my need to be respectable, to 
be a doctor, and to be a respectable doctor was sort of a class 
phobia. I've got to be polite, I've got to be a nice girl. If you're a 
nice girl, you can get away with an awful lot. So, I think that 
was part of it. Class became more obvious when it became in  
public health and access, I think, and access to medical care 
became issues much more seriously in the later '90s and the 
'00s. Beforehand, there were physicians, there were clinics, we 
saw— well, welfare patients then and they were just like any 
other patient when I had my private practice. And the 
distinction  and the class stratification of medicine. During  
medical school, class and race were clearly connected because 
at Philadelphia General Hospital, black poor people were in 
the wards, and white not poor people were in semi-private  
rooms.  
 There was an insurance turnover somewhere in the '60s, '70s  
that put lower income but insured black patients in  with the 
white rooms, and that— the hospital had a lot of trouble 
dealing with that. Black poor patients were the ones that 
medical students got to practice on. They were the ones that 
we sewed up in the  emergency room as medical students 
going out to be real doctors and sew somebody up, is we'd 
sew somebody up after a knife fight, or they'd fallen down 
their stairs, but they were the wrong color and they'd come to 
the ER. Those were the patients that we practiced. That was 
also the time when I saw my first patient die of septic 
abortion. Poor women who had resorted to the red rubber 
catheter, coat hanger abortions, and postponed medical 
treatment until their condition was fatal. That one's stayed 
with me for a long time.   
 Other class issues, not so much while I was in private practice 
in Eugene. Again, it was a glorious time. We could take care of 
folks from the South Hills, and folks on welfare, and 
everybody was the same. Now there seems to be a much— 
during my West Side Medical Associates times, we had a 
number of Christian patients. Christian, good Christian 
women who came because they wanted to talk to a woman 
doctor and hadn't had a chance to talk to a woman doctor. 
And they'd say that they kind of disapproved of this and this 
but they were glad to come to me anyway. And I'm not sure 
that could happen as easily now, as it did then. It was also at 
West Side Medical when I first started being a focus of protest 
because I did pregnancy terminations. We had a totally crazy 
man who would picket out in front with a couple of sinks full 
of blood-red paint dipped baby parts, and his signs. And he 
would be there fairly regularly.  
 The police department had said, "Don't have anything to do 
with this man, he's crazy." And he was and had a very bad 
history. We set up with Planned Parenthood and NARAL  a 
Pledge-a-Picket program that allowed the pledges to increase 
based on the number of anti-abortion  pickets that there were 
out in front of the clinic, and we had a large thermometer for 
the money we had gained by having these characters out in 
front. One point, a year into this, months into this, I can't 
remember—and my patients were wonderfully supportive—
despite the fact that these characters were yelling at children  
as they came into the clinic with their patients that, "They kill 
babies in there, you know." So we let patients come in the back 
door. Tom and Scott to their credit  didn't fuss, didn’t fuss  and 
provided co—. So we did Pledge-a-Picket, and we got some 
wonderful people supporting us.  
 The UPS driver on West Eleventh, Jean  Tate, the realtor, we 
got flowers from wonderful folks. At one point I got— I'd had 
a very bad weekend and the guy had done a  poster that had 
Dr. Sarah in her gray skirts and white coat holding a big 
bloody dagger hanging out this, and I went out and I grabbed 
the sign and I stuck it in the trash. And he went off and called 
the police because he was waiting for something like this to 
happen because this was an assault and a theft on my part. He 
hadn't managed to provoke us. The policemen who came the 
first time to see what had happened— I was just in tears in the 
office, had a very bad morning, said something like, "There, 
there,  dear." And sent Becky Flynn to— and she was just a 
new cop at that point. Finally sent the girl cop to come and 
talk to me about all this. I thought that was very, very sweet.  
 A month later or so, the detective called up and said, "Well, do 
you remember— What happened?" Oh, no, "Don't tell me that, 
don't tell me that. This valuable sign is not recoverable. 
Correct?" Correct. I said, “I threw it in the trash.” He said, 
"No,  don't tell me that— not recoverable." And so the legal 
case went to nothing for that. But the police department was  
incredibly supportive. And was Flynn out then or not? Maybe 
so. And who's the other wonderful gay policeman? The police 
woman? Short— 
Long:  Jennifer Bills?  
Hendrickson:  Yeah, Jen, Jen. Names are falling out the back of my head like I 
don't know what. Jen and I worked together when she was 
being a decoy for prostitution on the West Side because our 
house is on West Eugene and we had a lot of fun playing with 
that. But is that relevant to sexual minorities? I don't know. So 
that was the '90s, public health. Public health is difficult 
because Lane County is under badly, badly, badly 
underfunded for public services. We as a county have 
depended on that timber money for so long that— and our tax 
base is somewhere around the tenth  of what Multnomah 
County's tax base  is in terms of fees per dollar.  And we spend 
about, less than a tenth  per capita for public health, as 
Multnomah County. So it's dreadfully underfunded for what 
we would like to do for public health. That was disappointing, 
that was disappointing.  
 And from a political point of view, I don't think that the good 
guys on the County Board of Commission gave a damn about 
public health either. Peter Sorenson didn't visit me in ten years 
that I was there. And Faye Stewart,  the fat conservative, the 
nice— the family man from Oakridge who is so very 
politically conservative and a Republican, actually would  
come to meetings and care about what would happen to poor 
women and kids, and how can we spend money that made a 
difference here? So that was kind of an interesting— “Not all 
that is left is always good in all positive and possible ways.” I 
ended up retiring early in the teens just after the bird flu, the 
Asian flu  hurrah, because that was handled so embarrassingly 
badly, and the  county was sort of— And I was tired and I was 
losing my hearing. And not being able to hear makes it very 
difficult for me to do patient interactions.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Hendrickson:  Some, maybe '11.  
Raiskin:  How was it handled poorly? How was it handled poorly, the 
flu? 
Hendrickson:  Oh the flu, inadequate funding, inadequate cooperation with 
the traditional medical community. County officials going off 
in their own direction without taking into account what the 
doctors at Sacred Heart and Mackenzie needed to have to 
support the work that  they did. Just sort of a blind-sightedness 
to how complicated it got to be.  
Raiskin:  What where  your plans for retirement when you retired?  
Hendrickson:  What were my plans? My plans were I wasn't going to retire 
for another five years. So I got retired and Gretchen at that 
point was working for the state as an administrative law  
judge, and her job was getting bureaucratized  at one point. 
She came home in tears from a job one day and we said, "Well, 
you don't have to  work anymore, you can quit." So we quit.  So 
we quit. We had a wonderful time.  
Long:  And how old are your kids at that point?  
Hendrickson:  They were gone, educated through college and out in the wide 
world.  
Long:  Okay.  
Hendrickson:  Our youngest is now thirty so he would have been twenty— 
he's had a little more trouble getting his feet on the ground 
and finding a good job, but they were doing fine, we didn't 
have to worry. We were done with the kids, we were done 
with the jobs, we just got retired.  
Raiskin:  I forgot to ask you, did you and Gretchen get married?  
Hendrickson:  We've been married so many times. We got married at the 
March on Washington in that group ceremony that they did 
in— when was that 90— 
Raiskin:  Three?  
Hendrickson:  Yeah, probably about then. We had of course guardianships 
and wills all set up before that. We became domestic partners 
in Oregon as soon as we could. We were the poster girls along 
with Tim and Kent, the poster guys for Southern Oregon  
when the ACLU talked Multnomah County into issuing 
marriage licenses. When was that? Two-thousand 06. And I 
got proposed to on Tuesday and married on Saturday, and it 
turned out to be a wedding, not a press conference. And that 
was sort of wonderful. We were married and stayed married 
for about fifteen months. There are a number of folks who 
were married in that blup of—. And then Multnomah County 
sent us back our $62 and annulled the marriage. So she's been 
my wife, and my domestic partner, and my wife and my ex-
wife, and then we domestic partnered  again, and finally got 
married in California shortly before Oregon became legal. 
What year was that? We were just ready to get married 
properly.  
Long:  Two-thousand fifteen  when the Supreme Court made the 
decision?  
Hendrickson:  It was before the Supreme Court decision, it was when 
California had legalized gay marriage, same sex marriage. I 
can find out if you want, it was sometime in the early teens. 
We were married as a same sex couple in El Dorado County. 
And the El Dorado County clerk was— but we got married. 
And then Oregon approved same sex marriage, maybe nine 
months after that, which simplified things, and then was the 
Supreme Court decision, the Kennedy decision.  
Raiskin:  Two-thousand fifteen.  
Hendrickson:  Pardon?  
Raiskin:  Two-thousand fifteen. 
Hendrickson:  That was '15. So it was probably '13 that we got married in 
California. Lots of times.  
Raiskin:  Which one was the most meaningful to you?  
Hendrickson:  Probably the one in Oregon that turned out not to be real. 
Because that was the ACLU, which was a bunch of Gretchen's 
ACLU political activist friends. And somehow we had been 
church ladies of the Unitarian Universalist Church for a while, 
but not— the kids had gone to Sunday school there and so on. 
But somehow they found out that this was happening and 
about 100 folks from church showed up, just were right there 
to celebrate this with us and with Kent. And our minister 
came out of her sabbatical retirement to do the ceremony 
because, this has been an issue that involved her for a long 
time. So, it was  all this sneaky emotional support that snuck in 
behind the sense of reserve that— we’ve  always been very 
about ourselves and who we were and who the kids were, but 
we've always also been very reserved. We had— I think we 
had pretty clear boundaries. I never hugged anybody until, 
much until I retired because you just didn't do that, especially 
after being on the board. And I hug a whole lot more now. But 
it was as if all that support snuck in behind the reserve and 
said, "Hey, this is okay," you know. Wow.   
Long:  Can you tell us about your other dream now?  
Hendrickson:  The other dream. So I got retired and became a gardener. We 
built a new church, we drove to Guatemala and back, to teach 
English to Mayan students about six years ago, filling up the 
retirement, staying busy, but it's been hard. It's a little hard to 
be retired— it's different, not hard— it's different to be retired. 
To move from a life that's just always been three or four roles 
happening simultaneously, to having a chance to sit and think, 
or just sit and not even have to think. And we signed up— 
three years ago, we signed up at church for an OWL class. 
OWL is Our Whole Lives.  I don't know how much you know 
about it, it's a program in sexuality education at the United 
Church of Christ in the UU set up ages and ages ago, to try— 
that's setup for age appropriate curricula for youngsters from 
kindergarten up to elders, to talk about sexuality.  
 So our church was offering this class for the first time at  our 
church, and the two facilitators were a couple that I really 
wanted to get to know better. A straight couple who the 
church had sent back to somewhere to get trained in doing the 
class. And some other people were signing up who I had a lot 
of respect for and thought I'd like to get to know these people 
better, why don't we just sign up for this? I used to teach sex 
ed, let's see how it's changed, it might be interesting.  We were 
having a little bit of— oh, you know,  here we've been together 
for twenty-five years, what are we going to do sexually? It  
might not hurt us either. And we signed up for this class 
thinking, eh, this is going to be interesting. Honest to God, 
that's all I thought. About the third class, they brought in two 
trans men, to be speakers to talk about their experience, and 
what it was like, as well as the lady from the  As You Like It 
sex store and talked about their— Oh it's wonderful, and we 
played with words, great course if you ever have a chance to 
play with it. And I went back home. 
 Now, over the last decades, I've thought every now and then 
something will be in the news, and somebody will be doing a 
gender change and I would say to myself, Oh, I could do that 
if I were ten years younger, if I were twenty  years younger, if I 
weren't a poster lesbian for southern Oregon, if I weren't the 
mother of three boys, na, na, na, na. And I was just really 
blessed to be able to take care of two folks who were making 
sex changes in the '80s way before, who found our office, and I 
was able to help them find hormones for changes in both 
directions. And they taught me so much about their process 
and what was going on. But my response at that point was, I 
was fascinated but, I just had no conscious awareness this was 
any different than anywhere else. 
 So, third week of the class and I'm starting to say, maybe I 
could do that. And then I woke up from another vivid dream 
and said, “I am going to do that. I will be transgender, I'm 
going to make the change to male, this fits who I was when I  
was little, and here I am three years later.” So that was that 
second dream. It was just, I knew it, I was going to do it. So it's 
as if the decisions both in the case of Gretchen and the gender 
change, and probably others that I'm not so aware of 
happened to— it's like the Spanish reflexive. The decision 
happened itself to me, I didn't make the decision. I don't 
remember ever sitting with a list of pros and cons about being 
lesbian or not being lesbian, or who I would— maybe when I 
got married, I did it with a  set of pros and cons. I just needed 
to be straight so badly I didn't think about the cons hard 
enough at the time.  But the decision happened itself to me, 
and it happened. And since I've been, well, probably since the 
second week of hormone therapy, it felt like this was right, 
like I was a— I was living, this was how it ought to be, felt 
right.  
Raiskin:  Did you talk to Gretchen about this decision?  
Hendrickson:  Oh, yeah, oh yeah.  
Raiskin:  And what was her— 
Hendrickson:  I talked to her a lot, quite a bit. Gretchen isn't much of a talker 
and again, she's very calm and very reserved, and it was sort 
of [grumbling]— life with you has always been interesting, 
let's see what happens. It's worked, it's worked. Her response 
when she's asked— we gave a presentation  about my 
transition  to the women— the lesbian doctors meeting, which  
is— we just came back from two weeks ago, which is a really 
great group of older lesbians who we've known, lesbian 
physicians who, many of whom we've known for a long time. 
But her response is, "If Saro's happier, I'm happier, and we're 
happier." And I've always been sort of top-ish sexually, so that 
hasn't been a big change. Libido increase is always good for 
people in their '70s; it makes life a little easier.  
 But the biggest change that I've noticed is the—and this is 
supposed to be about lesbians, not about transgender people. I 
didn't really understand what gender dysphoria was. The 
sense of discomfort being in one's own gender that we talked 
about. I mean, I could tell you on an exam title, that that's 
what folks complain of. I didn't realize that what I had been 
feeling was gender dysphoria until I didn't have it anymore. 
The sense of— and there's lots of dysphorias in life, and it's 
not all due to gender. But the particular sense  of dis-ease and 
uncomfortable shamefulness, which is obviously multi-
factoral in the why world, I just don't have. And the biggest 
changes, and the most significant ones I notice are the ones 
that are me alone in the woods. The social adaptations are 
kind  of silly sometimes.  
Raiskin:  What do you mean?  
Hendrickson:  Oh, being a guy in the world and learning how to do men's 
bathrooms, and the kind of conversations that men will have 
with me now, as I am read as being a man are different in  
subtle, easy ways. Shaving is, I like shaving here much more 
than I like shaving my legs. But it feels right.  
Long:  Where did you have your surgery?  
Hendrickson:  My top surgery was in Seattle. Transgender care has just 
blossomed in Oregon.  The Oregon Health Plan decided to 
cover it probably about over the last two years or so. And 
those surgeries are done for folks with Oregon Health Plan, 
and Oregon insurances at OHSU. And  OHSU in Portland has 
now developed a transgender care center to do surgeries for 
both male to female, and female to male changes. But there is 
also an annual meeting that's been going on for fifteen, now 
sixteen  years in Seattle and now L.A., called Gender Odyssey 
that was established by a trans man from Vancouver, B.C., 
actually. And that was very useful for me in terms of meeting 
other folks and meeting surgeons. And what— 
Long:  Did you have to go through a battery of psychiatric tests to see 
if you would qualify?  
Hendrickson:  I had to— I was right there at the cusp of whether I had to 
have— the gatekeeper  model for treatment for transgender, 
transsexual people, has been the previous— during the '90s 
and the '00s, the early 2000s. The idea that one had to see the 
counselor, and live as the preferred sex for a year, and have a 
sexual attraction to the straight counterpart of what you 
wanted to be. There were a number of very specific  
requirements that limited access, and I think also encouraged 
a lot of falsification of history by the people— by folks who 
wanted access to that care. It's been some wonderful writing 
about it. Just, and I've learned so much in the last three years, I 
just read, and read, and read, and read. But the gatekeeper 
model has been fading in the last several years to the idea that 
informed consent as a model. The idea that maybe the patient 
knows what they want and how they're doing, and if Dolly 
Parton wants bigger boobs, how come I can't decide I don't 
want any?  
 It's the— are we applying different standards to different 
situations? So I saw a counselor for a period of time and he 
wrote a letter for me that gave me access to the physician who 
first prescribed my hormone therapy. And she turned out to 
have been the first transgender physician in Oregon, who 
went through a gender change with the board during her 
practice of medicine. I didn't know this until I was in the 
middle of my appointment with her. Quite an— But then I 
tend to not see things that are right in front of my face. 
Sometimes quite often. The processes and the people are 
fascinating. There are very few older transgender men. There's 
a handful of folks who made their changes in the '90s and the 
early 2000s. Many transgender men who make the change 
kind of take themselves away from the community and just 
live their lives as men.   
 So, that piece of community is not as strong as it is for 
transgender women who don't get to pass. Who don't get to be 
read as women as easily as those of us who are changing to 
male. It's been a little hard finding older guys, but it's also an 
interesting perspective.  
Long:  How did your children react? 
Hendrickson:  Oh, you know they're fine, they're fine. My conservative first 
son probably thought it was a little, a little bit weird, but they 
are really much more interested in their own lives than they 
are in ours. The second son, the in-your-face guy's current 
wife has been sending me wonderful Father's Day presents. I 
got a— I never thought I'd be a grumpy old man, but now I'm 
killing it. And I got a Bolo tie for my last Father's Day. 
Raiskin:  And so how do you identify?  
Hendrickson:  How do I identify? That's another good question. I identify as 
male, but I'm a particular kind of guy. I'm definitely a trans 
guy. And there was a lot of discussion a week before last 
meeting about whether Gretchen can still be a lesbian or not. 
And she's been wearing her “Keep calm, I'm a lesbian” T-shirt 
a lot these last couple of weeks. It's interesting, because in our 
last decades of doing life, family, and profession and so on, 
there have been weeks at a time when I don't, haven't thought, 
Oh, I'm a lesbian. Oh, I'm in a same-sex marriage. And we 
were talking about this last night, too, with a supper group of  
lesbian folks. That, is it assimilation? Is it? What's going on 
that we do that? So there were times I wasn't thinking of 
myself as lesbian and there are times now that I don't think of 
myself as trans. We just have to kind of do gardening and, 
where is that bicycle key? And I've got a 9:00 o’clock 
appointment.  
 So life gets there anyway. There was quite a thread of 
discussion among the lesbian doctors, the women in medicine, 
about the loss of the “L.” The disappearing “L,” and evidently 
there's a book written about the disappearing “L.” The loss of 
women-only spaces, of women's bars, of women's music 
festivals, of women's bookstores. Where is the community? 
How many young lesbians even know who Holly Near is? 
And when is the last time you saw somebody wearing bib 
overalls that wasn't in a production of Our Town or 
something? And it's a real, the loss of the community, that loss 
of community, and that  sense of, here is a lesbian space where 
I can be a woman and talk about women's stuff, and be 
women only, and have radical politics, is a major, major loss 
for some people and like you really, could really perceive the 
grief that comes with seeing that fading, seeing women's 
studies become gender studies.  
 Where did the women go? Where did the women-loving-
women go? Where's the women stuff? And I want to read 
more about that because that's a real issue. And in a sense I  
don't— it's not all my fault. Some people like to think— not 
my fault. And I have been accused of going over to the dark 
side. The next time I give that lecture is going to be called, 
“Have I Gone Over to the Dark Side, and Do I Get to Still Be a 
Lesbian or Not?” 
Raiskin:  Also the feeling of  what's happened to the butches?  
Hendrickson:  Oh, yeah, the loss of the butch, and I've heard that, too. Well, 
there are still butches. There are still butches and I'm still kind 
of butch. But it's nice to be— I think I'm freer to be butchier 
than I might have been earlier when I was trying hard to be 
straight. So— 
Long:  Is being a lesbian butch different than being— feelings that 
you have about being a man?  
Hendrickson:  Oh, I imagine, but I haven't thought about how they differ. I 
didn't spend a lot of time claiming butch identity. That was 
never a big important piece.  If somebody asked I would have 
been the butch but it wasn't as important to me as it is to 
people who are feeling lost. And I've talked to women who 
are very butch, who are quite happy being identified as 
women with butchy inclination, and there's lots of writing 
about it. S.  Bear Bergman, if you've read his stuff, has gone 
through a real interesting evolution along that. From staying 
butch and keeping his/her feet, keeping their feet in that 
community to say, "Maybe I'll have top surgery after all." It all  
changes. I'm barely aware of my own changes until they 
happen, I should tell somebody else how to do it.  
Long:  That relates to another question I wanted to ask which is, 
when you had your surgery and you became a man, what 
were your— did you have a sense of rightness like you were 
complete then?  
Hendrickson:  It was— the hormone treatment was the one— the piece, 
testosterone was what gave me the sense of, okay, now I'm 
right. And the surgery was sort of, the surgery and the going 
to court both happened in October of that year, and going to 
court and getting the document that says I— Circuit Court 
says I'm a guy. And then I can go to the DMV, and then I can 
go to the passport office, and I can change all that ID, and be 
legally male in the world. That was sort of after the fact. And 
it makes the outside world fit so I'm not going to run into 
trouble if I  get a parking ticket or a speeding ticket, or 
something. And I— But the real fitness is internal, it's sort of a 
sense that this works, this works.  
Long:  How have your experiences been as people treat you as a 
man?  
Hendrickson:  As people treat me as a man? It's a little bit disappointing how 
much sexism there is in the world that I get to see from this 
side. I thought  Eugene was better but I really— I get treated 
far more attentively by the clerks at Jerry's. They assume I  
know more and that I'm making sense. And I wasn't a very 
shy flower hesitant customer out at a Jerry's either. But I didn't 
get treated differently. Guys talk to me more about their 
personal stuff. I've heard discussions about prostate surgery.  
We got offered the four extra beers that the  motorcyclists were 
leaving at the motel in Klamath Falls that  they couldn't take 
on their bikes. "Hey, you want some beer, man?" And store 
clerks, cute young store clerks treat me better. I mean, it's clear 
that the girls like to flirt with old guys, that  kind of behavior.  
 And as an older woman, I've heard a lot, and I've heard a lot 
from older women about how older women do get to be 
invisible. We had a minister once who told a story about when 
she's wearing her red coat, and she's in the line, and she gets 
ignored because the clerk just looks at the next person over. 
And older women tend to be less seen, and of less 
significance. And it's very, very subtle and not a big deal. 
There were very— women and men are not all that different, 
and it's really a much slushier  border than we like to think as a 
society. How am I noticing myself being treated? Just those. I 
was in the hospital for a cardiac procedure earlier this year, 
I'm getting old, the problem. I didn't turn into the adolescent 
of my dreams, I look  in the mirror and I see this old guy. But, I 
think I get flirted with a little more by nurses.  
 And the first time that happened, I sort of didn't know what 
was happening and now I like getting flirted with. Kind of  
cool. The one other thing which is, probably not related, but I 
think it's funny is that, part of what testosterone did— it 
increases libido, sex drive enormously. And my experiences 
that was sort of— like I wanted paternally to take care of 
everybody that I ran into for about a month. It was this very 
custodial care-taking, not kind of maternal care-taking, but 
being in charge of the care-taking piece that I thought was 
really kind of nice. And the other thing that has affected me is 
that I've always loved women, there's never been, I've had a bi 
piece, and I can function bisexually and that's okay, but it's not 
all it's cracked up to be. But, and women are wonderful.  
 And visually what I get from testosterone is an appreciation 
for curves and the wonderfulness of femaleness that I had 
before, but not in the same way. And now when I see women 
who are attractive or just women, not even conventionally 
attractive, I often get a “Ooh, that's really nice, that's really—“ 
Not necessarily I want that, I've learned to suppress that piece. 
And Gretchen and I have had some fairly severe discussions 
about what constitutes objectification, and what doesn't 
constitute objectification. But, the visual appreciation of 
women is just a real nice piece.  
Raiskin:  Does it affect your visual appreciation of men?  
Hendrickson:  Nah, I'm afraid there's not much gay in me. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you like having transitioned at this time of your life?   
Hendrickson:  It keeps things exciting, and it keeps retirement from being 
boring. What I like about it is that I've got some leisure to 
think about what's going on. And I've had friends say, "Oh, 
you just waited this long because you didn't have time to pay 
any attention to yourself beforehand." I suppose I could 
generate regrets:  why couldn't I do this when I was thirteen? 
But I— regrets don't work, we learn that. And another piece is 
that, if I had been a man I couldn't have done what I did in 
medicine for women, and for lesbian women particularly. And 
I think that I was  able to be of use to folks. I could build on the 
women who had taken us this far in women's medicine, the 
writers of the Our Bodies, Ourselves, and take that and maybe 
be of some use to folks with it, and have those resources. So 
I'm glad I was able to do that. And I couldn't have done that as 
a man, so. 
Raiskin:  Do you imagine becoming a grandfather?  
Hendrickson:  Well, I am a granddad. We have three grandchildren now. 
And I'm “Grandpus” and they seem to think that's just fine.  
Long:  Do you have any concerns about lesbians and the aging 
process, and retirement, and  healthcare?  
Hendrickson:  I think, yeah any minority that's stigmatized is going to have 
troubles with retirement, and aging, and health care. We get 
old, we lose some of the abilities and the competencies that 
we've had before, and if we're lucky, we don't lose too many  
of them. But folks who are disempowered have trouble in this 
world. We don't take care of our disempowered very well at 
all. And I think sexual minorities are— sort of have that 
particular “yuck factor” among so many other people that I've  
shared to my discredit, that it's going to make cure harder. I 
don't think it's going to be difficult necessarily for educated, 
economically sufficient, well insured lesbians to get health 
care in much of the United States, although they better not 
retire  in Wichita.  
Raiskin:  And retirement homes and— 
Hendrickson:  Retirement homes, the inability to be with your partner if you 
want to be with your partner, I think could be a real problem. 
A lot of discussions about what to do with the— What do we 
do? What do we do? I don't think it— I really believe that it's 
not unique to lesbians or sexual minorities, and it's to any 
group that is perceived as disabled in any way, is not going to 
be treated as well. There were a number of presentations at the 
same meeting about sexual minority youngsters, and kids, 
and older folks, disabled sexual minority people, and the 
problems that they run into with access to health care, and 
other— all sorts of other carriers. We can do a whole lot better. 
We can do a whole lot better. 
Long:  Have you ever had any negative reactions to your transition 
by lesbians?   
Hendrickson:  Oh, yeah. Mostly, well, “You're old enough and you know 
what you're doing but those young butches are just getting led 
by the nose to make sociologically trendy changes, that they 
may regret later." Yeah, and I've been told I was going over to 
the dark side, I can't tell how much of that is a joke, and how 
much of that is negative. Again, it was, the lesbian doctors 
meeting, there were a number of folks our age who  were there 
who were really bemoaning the loss of the “L,” and really not 
sure I should be coming to the conference even though I had 
been there for decades, years before. I was okay to present a 
program, but can I be there? And that's, it's not just me, it's 
part of the whole movement of change of, how does a 
community identify itself? And increasingly the young people 
identify themselves as clear, queer, or non-binary, or fluid, or 
somewhere in between.  
 And a number of the youngsters, you know up to forty, 
youngsters who I would have said butch, no question butch, 
are clearly thinking non-binary thoughts, and they're, "Do I 
want low dose testosterone or don't I? Is it possible to make 
part of the change without doing a gender identity change?" 
Don't know— it's going to be interesting to watch.  
Raiskin:  If you were to speak directly to a young person who might be 
watching your— this interview at some point, is there 
something you would say to young people?   
Hendrickson:  To young people, be sure what you want  and go for it, and 
don't spend a lot of time and energy trying to make other 
people happy. Because— or to make the other people in your 
brain that thinks you ought to be a certain way, happy. 
Because you can waste an awful lot of time and energy doing 
that. You're young, be— you're not always going to be right. I 
think the gender change for children is easier, if you're talking 
about gender change is  an issue.  If it's a pre-puberty youngster 
who's  real clear one way or another, those situations are much 
easier to deal with than the college health service. We've 
talked to a college health service physician who says, "Surely 
20 percent  of the women in college can't be transgender. That's 
just too large a percentage. Are we dealing with gender 
dysphoria? Are we dealing with adolescent dysphoria? How 
do you help adolescents decide what they really need to do?"  
 The question is, try it out for a while, and are you happier? 
The case studies I've looked at, a youngster who's having 
trouble with— or an adult who's having trouble with life and 
trouble with depression, and trouble with school, and trouble 
keeping it together. And they're sick, and they're disturbed, 
and they're distressed, and begin a gender transition, and all 
of a sudden life comes together, and the student is able to get 
straight As and get into medical school because she's going to 
be a gender plastic surgeon. She got her life together instead of 
succeeding and killing herself at twenty, twenty-three  because  
there's something going on. So, I would say pay attention and 
be careful, but, life is too short to make mistakes.  
Long:  What has been the greatest joy in your life?  
Hendrickson:  Greatest joy? Oh, jeepers, oh jeepers, I've got a lot of them. 
Probably the grandkids at this point. And my wife who I have 
to give a great deal of credit for putting up with a great deal. 
Life is full of joys, if you ignore the fact the politics is as they 
are. 
Raiskin:  How old are you now?  
Hendrickson:  Seventy-two. 
Raiskin:  And what do you foresee in the next five, ten years?  
Hendrickson:  For me?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Hendrickson:  Some more political activity, more focused political activity. 
I'm going to go out and collect signatures for some sort of gun 
control ordinance. I'll probably go out and collect, and do 
some politicking for the anti, against the anti-immigrant  effort 
that's coming up here. We just moved from that big house that 
I moved— lived in the basement of thirty-eight  years ago, to a 
retirement cottage that we built across the alley that's all one 
level because Gretchen's knees are wearing out. So I still have 
some landscaping to do with that one, and I have a grand dog  
to give walks to. I hope I don't catch my mother's dementia. 
I'd like to figure out a way to be of some use. I'm going to 
watch, watch the young people. They are just full of amazing 
ideas and amazing schemata for what's possible in life, that 
we never thought was possible. Yeah.  
 And modern medicine has done some pretty wonderful things 
as well as some pretty awful things, and it's time for us to 
concentrate on prevention, people. What's the advice for  
young people? Take real good care of your bodies. I don't 
know.  
Raiskin:  Was there anything we missed you'd like to talk about?  
Hendrickson:  No, you've probably figured it out.  
Long:  Thank you so much.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Long:  Such  a pleasure.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  