 
 
Long:  This oral history interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral 
History Project. The recordings will be made available through the 
University of Oregon, Special collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Debora  Landforce on 
Wednesday, September 4, 2019 taking place in the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  recording studio in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long,  
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’  Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor  Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. Debora, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project, and 
that you give your permission for the university to preserve and 
make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Landforce:  I do.   
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Raiskin:  Thank you.  
Landforce:  You're welcome.  
Long:  Let's just begin with a basic question. Can you please tell us when 
and where you were born, where you grew up, and something 
about your early background?  
Landforce:  Sure. I was born on August 7, 1952 in Enterprise, Oregon. And we 
were living in Joseph at the time. Kind of still sometimes wished I 
lived in Joseph. But, there was no hospital in Joseph, so we went 
over to Enterprise. I lived there for about three years, and then 
came to Corvallis. I was mostly raised in Corvallis.  
Raiskin:  Why did you need the hospital in Enterprise?  
Landforce: I guess that's how they did it.  
Raiskin:  Oh, to be born?  
Landforce:  Yeah, to be born.  
Raiskin:  Oh, I thought you meant your  parents needed to be working there 
or something?  
Landforce:  No. 
Raiskin:  What did your parents do?   
Landforce:  Well, my dad was a County Extension agent in Wallowa  County, 
and my mom  was a teacher until my oldest sister was born. And 
then by the time I was born she was raising the kids.  
Raiskin:  And so, what brought you from eastern Oregon?  
Landforce:  My dad took a job with Oregon State. 
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Landforce:  Where— I would just say since it's my interview, I can just say 
what I want. I'm very proud of him. He is living on his own at the 
present time at 102 years old, having participated in life in Corvallis 
at the university for like eighty  years. So, I guess that's significant, 
and that's where I get my love of community and understanding 
how to network, how to care about people, how to bring people 
together.  
Raiskin:  And what was his job at OSU?  
Landforce:  He came in as a fish and wildlife  specialist. That's another part of 
my early upbringing, is a lot of fishing. A lot of outdoors, a lot of 
camping.  
Raiskin:  What was it like to grow up in Corvallis in the '60s, early '60s?  
Landforce:  Well, it's pretty interesting actually that you asked that. Because at 
the time, Corvallis was a pretty conservative little town, because 
the majors at OSU of, course, are forestry and fisheries, and 
engineering. When I was growing up, and then starting with my  
coming out process at the end of high school, it was really not a 
comfortable place for me to do that.  
 I was also very well known in school because of athletics and 
leadership. And so, I think Corvallis was a pretty significant part of 
the difficulty I had in coming out. One of the things you  might have 
noticed from the chronology is that, my process of coming out was 
a full ten years. And, I think that was because I was so expected to 
be the “girl next door,” and just meet a nice guy and have the kids 
and do all that. It was pretty tough. I'm  just going to mention a lot 
of things since, again, that's what we're doing.  
 I was, got a large class at Corvallis High with 540 students. I was 
selected— elected, I guess, as the Most Likely to Succeed. And, on 
the one hand that was a great honor and I was happy at the time, 
but it definitely made the coming out process a lot harder.  
Raiskin:  Why is that?  
Landforce:  Because of the expectations. And so, you ask about growing up at 
that time, the expectations were so clearly about marriage and kids. 
And I think a little bit different in a college town because we were 
expected to have a career, to get a degree and have a career.  
 I sometimes joke because as a five-year-old, we would run around 
in little groups around campus, on the OSU campus and say, "Well,  
what are you going to major in?" Not that any of us knew what a 
major was, but we knew we were going to have one. And so, it 
was— so, we were expected to get educated and have a career, but  
still obviously it's sexual orientation. Clearly we were going to  be 
straight.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about same sex attraction or lesbians in middle 
school or high school?  
Landforce:  Absolutely nothing. Really nothing. I would say that's what's just 
so incredibly different now, and has been for quite some time. I 
really didn't understand anything for— even really through 
college. I went up to Lewis and Clark College for my first two 
years, and I think that might be where I started to put two and two 
together that the good friends that I had been having were 
probably  maybe more than just good friends, and that even though 
I was dating a lot of men and stuff, there was something different.  
 One of the things I've been thinking about in preparation for this is 
the coming out process. Because as we talk about my time in 
Eugene as a lesbian therapist, one of the things that I worked a lot 
with in terms of the issues was coming out. Partly because, you 
know, I started my practice in my thirties, so I was mostly seeing 
twenty  and thirty  year olds.  
 Identity development was number one: “Who am I?” And then the 
coming out, and then relationships. I know I'm getting a little bit 
ahead, but just that that coming out piece is just so complex. It's so 
complex. And I think one of the things that made it complex for me 
is that I’ve  always had the ability to pass. And that's a concept that  
unless you're gay or lesbian, you don't even get that, what that 
difference is.  
 I just— I was able to play the role. It's so much different, of course, 
in some women who have always known, really couldn't pretend 
they were straight, and just had to grapple with that in a whole 
other way, which is equally as complex and difficult. But for me, I 
just kept acting straight and just thinking, this is a nice guy, and I 
can go to this dance or I can go to this game, or whatever.  
 And I guess, interesting for me, you asked about the confidentiality 
with clients, and I would never tell stories of clients here. But, it's 
also interesting to think that former clients of mine might be 
listening. Because the sexuality piece was very confusing for me, 
because I was dating men and I dated a lot of really nice men, and 
had good sexual experiences with men, hence the protracted 
coming out. But also, I think, in that process it gave me a lot of 
empathy and understanding  for the women that I was going to be 
working with.  
Raiskin:  Did you have negative feelings about lesbianism that kept you 
from coming out when you realized that your feelings for your 
women friends were a little bit more? What was the feeling about 
that?  
Landforce:  Well, this is probably pretty classic. I'm sure you've heard that back 
in the day the book, The Well of Loneliness  was one of the few that 
came— it didn't come up, we didn't search, we didn't Google. And  
so, that's one that I don't even know how  I came across it, but I 
wish it wasn't there, I wish I hadn't had that experience.  
Raiskin:  Can you say something about reading that book?  
Landforce:  Can I say something about it?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Landforce:  Well, it's just— obviously, it's just so incredibly depressing. Just 
incredibly depressing, and I think— it's kind of interesting. I know 
I'm jumping back and forth to being a therapist because all those 
early experiences informed that work so much. That one of the 
things that I ended up studying and writing about, and actually I'm 
still really involved with right now, is the whole concept of 
loneliness. And because I think we have a ton of social isolation 
and loneliness right now among our age cohort, among everybody 
really, but our age cohort specifically. So, it's my passion now.  
Raiskin:  Do you think there's a— do you have a specifically queer angle on 
that?  
Landforce:  The angle I think I have on it is having been part of such a strong 
community, and really understanding what that feels like to live 
with your tribe, and in really a tribal experience. Like is that— I 
was thinking about what is it about this time, in the Eugene lesbian 
community. And I thought of examples to share. And part of it  is 
just that everybody was involved. And I'll talk about Measure 9 in  
this interview I'm sure, because that was such a focal point for the 
development of community, and also for me as a therapist.  
 And everybody in the tribe was participating, everybody was 
involved and affected. And people were talking about it,  and there 
was a real central focus. And now, it's just so hard. You just don't 
replicate that. You just pretty much never will. And I think that's 
one of the things that this project, I don't know what it's brought up 
for other people, but one of my challenges in being here was 
working through a wave of sadness that I hadn't revisited for a 
long time. And just the missing of that incredible community 
experience.  
 And one of the things I think is beautiful about that for me is that, I 
now have that. As I've  moved then to  Corvallis and now up to the 
farm, two sides of the knife is, I know what I had and I also know 
what  I don't have. One of my current challenges is, how do you 
create a community in the country, and especially in this political 
climate. Now I've done the whole realm.  
Raiskin:  That's great though. Let's back up to when you first came out. 
Maybe what that was like, and when you came to Eugene and why.  
Landforce:  I think coming out and coming to Eugene were pretty synonymous 
for me time-wise, because I had been down in California. My first 
career was in sports medicine, and I'd been doing that for ten years. 
And I was at Chico State on the faculty there. And again, that's a 
pretty conservative time. I think now, it's hard for us to appreciate.   
Raiskin: What year were you at Chico?  
Landforce:  Seventy-six through '80. Were you there?  
Raiskin:  Thinking about that time.  
Landforce:  Yes. And I was in a physical education unit and teaching health 
and sports medicine, athletic training. And so, in athletics, which is 
kind of my home base there, very macho, very sexist, very 
homophobic. Nothing good personally was going to  happen there.  
 Then actually what brought me to Eugene actually is that my first 
nephew was born. And I'm very family-oriented, and I wanted to 
be with him. I wanted to see him grow up. And he's here in Eugene 
and still is. That's actually, I guess when I think about it, what 
started that move. But then, I got to Eugene at just the perfect time. 
At just the perfect time. And I'm sure you've heard this from 
other— It was awesome, and you were here, right?  
Raiskin:  So you came in 1980?  
Landforce:  Yeah, 1980.  
Raiskin:  I wasn't here yet.  
Landforce:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  But, did you know that Eugene was a place where lesbians were 
gathering?   
Landforce:  No. I was still pretty closeted to myself. No, not to myself, but I was 
closeted to others. By then, because I'm probably about late 
twenties or whatever, the pattern of falling in love with your pals, 
with your friends is starting to look a little suspicious, a little 
consistent. So, I was out to myself. I was no longer messing up the 
minds of men. That's when— 
Raiskin:  Were you dating women yet?  
Landforce:  Yes. And the good news was that I stopped dating men, which one 
of my regrets in my life history is having hurt some very quality 
men. But anyway, I wasn't batting on that team. That was just was 
going to happen.  
Long:  Had you been engaged to any men?  
Landforce:  No. No, I wasn't quite that— I was going to say foolish, but I don't 
mean that in a way against other people who certainly it would 
have been very easy to take that trail, let me just say that.  I have a 
lot of empathy for that, but for me it would have been unfortunate. 
I didn't mean to say that judgmental word.  
Raiskin:  What did Eugene seem like to you when you came?  
Landforce:  Well, I started taking classes— I started in a master's program in 
counseling and also a strong emphasis in health, because that was 
my background at that point, and psychology. I actually did an 
interdisciplinary degree, which I loved in those three things. And 
then came upon the women's studies certificate. And I'm sure  
you've heard from a lot of people the incredible power of that 
experience.  
 And I think my instructor, I couldn't find a record, but it was Judith 
also another Judith Barker. I don't know if her names come up, but 
if I ever got to see her again, I would thank her profusely.  
Raiskin:  What classes did you take from her?  
Landforce:  Well, it was a twenty-four  unit certificate. So, whatever that is, six 
or eight classes, whatever I took. I took that along with this very, 
very exciting master's degree where I got to study whatever was of 
interest to me.  
 And then I also met a couple of really powerful women during that 
time also who I didn't know were lesbian at the time, but when I 
was hired on the staff here at the U of O  I found out later, and that 
might be a coming out that I won't mention, because that's fifteen  
years older than I am, and they may still not want to be out. But, 
there are some incredible women, I'm sure Dr. Pope, is it Barbara 
Pope?  
Raiskin:  Barbara  Pope.  
Landforce:  Yes. I'm sure she would not mind. There were just some very 
powerful and important women at that time. And then, when you 
start to learn about feminism and sexism and stuff, it just opens up 
a whole other door. By the time I graduated in 1985 with master's  
degree and the  women's studies certificate, then I was totally out 
on every level.  
Raiskin:  Where were you living?  
Landforce:  You mean where here in town?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Landforce:  Well, I didn't go back. I was in a little house on the edge of campus. 
And then later in other apartments, because I was also working still 
at the Center for Sports Medicine, and at South Eugene High 
School at the time.  
Raiskin:  What were you doing at South? 
Landforce:  Athletic training. Yeah, I loved it. Great school, great time.  
Raiskin:  So, you joined the staff at the Counseling Center here— 
Landforce:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  —when you graduated?  
Landforce:  Well, not immediately. But, I went into private practice.  Well, 
actually, since we're telling the whole story— I forgot my master's 
degree. I was accepted into a doctoral program at the University of 
California, Santa Barbara in counseling psychology. And I went 
there for a year, and that also just totally changed my life, and 
changed my identity, and really solidified my identity as a 
therapist, because of the fact that my degree was interdisciplinary,  
and I was working still in sports medicine, I probably didn't have 
the confidence yet to see myself as being able to help people in a 
therapeutic way. But after a year of doctoral work at a very fine 
program, I was ready to do that. If I were a different person I 
would have stayed and finished that degree. And that might have 
worked out really well. But, I'm not a different person, and I was in 
love with somebody in Eugene.  
 So I came back, and I have to just say, because I've done a lot of 
career counseling in my practice as well. One of the things I do 
actually love about career counseling is that there's so many layers 
to it. And one of the layers is what we tell ourselves about why we 
chose a certain career path. And the other is what was really 
happening at the time. And I loved, as a counselor, getting to what 
was really happening.  
 I chose love, and came back and started my practice. That's kind of 
where we were going there. And by then I felt comfortable, I felt 
ready. It was a great time in therapy, and this is a good time to, 
kind of, weave in all the mental health pieces.  
 Because straight therapists really  didn't know how to work with 
gay and lesbian clients. They really didn't. And one of my passions, 
I guess, or hurts, or things I have compassion for so many lesbian 
women and gay men, is that therapy hurt them a lot. And I hate 
that. And I hate that about  my field, because one of the powers of 
therapy as you know, is the vulnerability and the trust.   
 And when people are in such a vulnerable state as they are, when 
they're coming out, to have somebody powerful in their life like 
that be condemning and negative— I mean there's levels of that. I 
mean, one is just that blank face where they just won't go with 
anything affirming. And so, you're just still left all alone, or just 
downright negative.  
 And at the time, aversion therapy was still happening, and it was 
happening here in Eugene with well-known and well-respected 
therapists. One of the things that I had the courage to do was to 
identify as a lesbian therapist. And that in itself was a huge act of 
affirmation for the community. As I look at maybe ways that I 
contributed or made a difference in how people looked at 
themselves, and their sisters was to go ahead.  
 I remember the day I had it printed on my business card, because 
nobody did that. I had never seen it. And I kind of  laugh at myself 
now a little bit, because I've put, counselor, sexual orientation, 
gender identity. And nobody, including me, for the most part, 
knew really what gender identity was or how to work with it. I just 
wanted to differentiate that it was two different things.  
 I just say that, I don't think I hurt people through not being an 
expert at it. But I had a lot to learn, and we all did back in the day. 
But, it was very empowering to me and to others. And, I will 
mention a few names because one of the really powerful things for 
me in this community was incredible therapeutic community that 
was here. Because, of course, of the doctoral program in counseling  
psych from here, from the U of O, and good master's programs and 
good faculty, and just the general ambiance of the community was  
pretty therapy-friendly.  
 At that time, it was sort of, like, “What's your name and who's your 
therapist?” was how the dialogue went. Because pretty much 
lesbians just by and large had therapists. It was a very common and  
important experience. The women that I got to work with are really 
unrivaled in my professional experience and so I'll mention some of 
them. Because, we had staffing groups. That's one of the things  you 
do professionally. I was in a staffing group with Stephanie 
Whitman and Erika Waechter  and Toni Tortorilla, and Brooke 
Schaffer, and Pat Heron. And then some others came and went. 
But, for twenty  years, a core of us met every week and talked 
about, of course, how to be therapists, but also about the women 
that we loved in our practices, that we were nurturing and each 
other. And empowered ourselves to be, not only better therapists, 
but better leaders, better activists.  
 One of the things that I loved about being a therapist at that time 
was that we really acted as, I think, ministers in the  community, 
spiritual leaders. My other career, if I hadn't done what I did, I 
would love to have been a pastor in a church.  
 We got to relate with women at that level. And, the reason I say 
that is because none of us  were welcome in churches. When women 
want to— when they were grieving, or they wanted a commitment  
ceremony, or they want their puppy baptized, or you know, all of 
those things, therapists got involved in.  
 I performed a number of weddings, commitment ceremonies. I did 
funeral services often up the McKenzie  with special places to go 
and just be with a group of women. And there needed to be a 
spokesperson for the spiritual, emotional side of what was going 
on. And people didn't  have a pastor to turn to. It was really the 
support of those women, and then how we were each touching 
lives at a very significant level that just created this energy that just 
flowed back and forth.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a supervisor that you worked with?  
Landforce:  Well, Carolyn Keutzer— Carolyn in the Psychology Department 
was pretty much— 
Raiskin:  Was there any disagreement amongst your core group about 
anything about counseling lesbians?  
Landforce:  No. I think one of the lines that we walked and walked differently 
was how activist to be, and how— and was it okay to be involved 
in community activities with the confidentiality of the sessions. 
Because straight therapists weren't doing that, and you rarely saw 
your straight therapist out socially at all. Whereas we were in the 
Eugene Celebration and the MLK marches. And certainly I was 
doing a lot of public speaking at the time.   
 And so, that was different. That was an interesting line because 
that's not— you have, as you know, dual relationships are what 
you're supposed to avoid in a therapeutic relationship. But it felt so 
much more compelling and important to be a role model, to be a 
leader, to be out there than it did to just be one person in a quiet 
private office.  
Raiskin:  And where else would you go as a lesbian then through lesbian 
community as a small as far as institutions?  
Landforce:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Would you be on a softball team or— 
Landforce:  Yeah. And, of course, the Ducks, we all went to the women's 
basketball games. I didn't— 
Raiskin:  Was that difficult?  
Landforce:  Well, yes. Yes, I'll tell you a story, because  you said you like stories. 
So, fantastic kd lang concert.  
Raiskin:  Was it?  
Landforce:  Yeah. I went with Stephanie Whitman, and our partners. And so, of 
course, we've just come through a week of hearing all the different 
relationship dynamics, and really weeks before that and 
everything, but very fresh. And we were on the first row of the first 
balcony. We had this view of all the women, and we were just like,  
"Oh, she's not supposed to be with her." She just told me that she 
was never going to see her again." 
 And Stephanie was having the same exact response like, "Oh, my." 
And also just with dress and with behavior, and with drinking and 
all these things that you're hearing in session, and then you're just 
watching it out in front of you. The concert was so good that we 
stayed. But, at the break, Stephanie was just saying, "I don't know, 
maybe we should get out of here." This is kind of tough. And 
then— 
Raiskin:  Were you worried about the women  seeing you, and then feeling 
self-conscious, or were you worried about getting information that 
you had not been given?  
Landforce:  Both, really. I mean, one of the things is, it's just universally tough 
to be the partner of a therapist. Because people know you and you 
can never say how you know them or whatever. Certainly there 
was some awkwardness with that, but it's more the latter. It's more, 
"Ooh, I wasn't supposed to know that, and I wish I didn't." We had 
rules that probably straight therapists don't worry so much about. 
Like, we tried not to see more than one person in a thread.  
Raiskin:  What do you mean?  
Landforce:  As you know, lesbians are infamous for creating family with their 
ex-partners. If there was a couple of ex-partners, and then this 
person, then like I would try not to see the new partner of the ex. I   
would try not to get involved with more than one woman in that, 
what I call thread sequential.  
Raiskin:  Because why?  
Landforce:  Because, you'd hear too many conflicting things. And one of the 
things about being good therapists is, you have to meet your client 
where they are, and you have to believe them, and you have to 
work with their story, because that's the one that matters.  
 If you also have known, for instance, that somebody has been 
having an affair that had an affair while they were with them and 
they never knew it, it's just as well to leave that lie because that's 
not a part of their story, or their experience. I would just as  soon  
not to know that.  
Raiskin:  Complicated.  
Landforce:  Yeah. So, then we'd try to accept clients from different social 
groups.  
Raiskin:  What did you learn from your clients during this period? We're 
talking about '85 to '90? Is that— 
Landforce:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What did you learn about being a lesbian from them?  
Landforce:  Well, that's a great question. I just had so much— I guess the thing I 
would say is incredible strength, incredible resilience. Just, I get a 
little teary just thinking about what women went through, and  
their ability to come back, and try it again, especially in areas, for 
instance, of love where people were  so hurt in relationships, often 
because of internalized homophobia or homophobia in their 
families.  
 I guess I'll diverge into some of the really hard parts. One of the 
couple of the really big problems in the lesbian community, one, of 
course, was alcoholism for pretty apparent reasons. And the other 
was suicide. And so, I guess, the question is what I learned about 
lesbians and even maybe more about the human spirit. It’s the  
human spirit, and also I have a tremendous pride and admiration 
for women. 
 And  I think what is the center of my existence, and what I want to 
contribute, and what I believe is just the incredible strength of 
women, and what women went through every day and still wanted 
to be better, still wanted to heal, still would keep trying to be the 
best they could be and love other people the best they could love. 
And, it's extremely humbling to be that intimate with people on a 
daily basis. That was life changing.  
Raiskin:  Can you say more about these difficult areas of about alcoholism 
and suicide?  
Landforce:  Yeah. Alcohol, I  hate that statistic, so I hate talking about it. And 
really just before my time especially, the only places where women 
that were at bars so much, you mentioned the Riv Room and— it 
wasn't as much like that in the early '90s. There were a lot more  
activities to bind women together. And that's why I mentioned the 
U of O sports. 
 There are places that people could see each other and identify. I 
didn't play softball, but I went to a lot of softball. Softball was big. 
Partly I  didn't go because of my clients. Well, and that I'm not very 
good player. I'm quite a good basketball player, but not so much 
softball. And so, in a way the culture inherited that use of alcohol 
as just what women did.  
 That's one facet, is the cultural facet. But the other is the pain. And, 
I really, really understood that. I would just say that the two 
women that I have the most admiration for in the world are people 
in recovery. See, I knew I would get a little teary because I just have 
so much compassion and pride in the women.  
 I just think to be in recovery and to make that change in life is just 
hugely hard. And, I think so a lot of the women that drank as a way 
to anesthetize  the pain or some of the most sensitive, beautiful, 
intelligent women. I certainly loved it when women were able to 
make that step, and grieved it, when women weren't.  
 And, we've lost a lot of good women, both to death and by suicide 
and other ways because of the alcohol use. But, also just life of the 
things that they could have given the world, and just couldn't 
because of the addiction.  
 I think that's a real sadness in our community. And, of course, all of 
us therapists work very closely with the  recovery community. That  
was one of the hardest places to work at that time, because of, in 
some cases, the Christian perspective, a higher power perspective 
on that did not include gay  and lesbian people.  
 One of the things— that's the downside of it. One of the things that 
was so exciting during the whole '90s is, all of the programming 
that started coming in. And the AA meetings simply for gay and 
lesbian, and then lesbian because realizing that those are different 
issues, and we don't necessarily want to do that with men.  
 Eventually I would say in the time I was here, I was able to get to a 
point where I can refer easily and with trust to a lot of the other 
services. But at the time it was, you know, the early '90s it was 
pretty slim pickings on where a woman could go, and really get 
respectful help.  
Raiskin:  I want to go back a little bit to that '85 to '90 period. We've heard a 
lot about such a vibrant community, and we've also heard about a 
lot of ideological judgment within community and conflict. I 
wondered about your perspective on both of those; on the vibrancy 
of the community, and then difficult social challenges.  
Landforce:  Well, I will say that I know what you're talking about. I mean, I 
have an idea of what you're— and I love to position I was in, 
because I just had the support, I didn't really have to take a side. 
And in  fact, it was important that I not. I tried to use my 
professional skills sometimes in ways that got pretty sticky. Like 
with facilitating changes with Mother Kali's, very involved with  
Mother Kali's and the bookstore, and the management. That was a 
political hotbed.  
Raiskin:  Can you say something about that so that people know what— 
Landforce:  What the store  was?  
Raiskin:  —kinds of things would happen. Yeah, what were some of the 
issues?  
Landforce:  Well, one of them, of course, would be the age-old how to create 
change most effectively. And, you have the dykes  on bikes, and 
then you have the people that are going to quietly do the research, 
and do the writing. And, you're only hurting us by being that out.  
 People that really needed to be on the same page because we all 
really need to be on the same page, especially around measures 9  
and 13. And, there would be in-fighting, and part of it like we're 
saying about theoretical, certainly different opinions in the whole 
gamut of feminism. And, obviously, from the separatists to women 
that were still in marriages with men. And then, of course, just the 
age-old challenge of trying to get along with other people. And, I 
think we wanted very much to see ourselves as elevated beings. 
And on one level, like I spoke previously, we were but on another, 
we were just people trying to figure out how to run an 
organization.  
 And, in a lot of cases, it was a work of passion, not a  professional 
preparation. You had people trying to start businesses or run things  
that really didn't have the skills to do it. And thank goodness that 
they went ahead and tried, and people did the best they could and 
made huge inroads. But, it certainly got messy.  
 But, like I said, I was able to— I'd like to say, rise above the fray. 
And that's how I  saw my job, was to support the individuals in 
whatever perspective they had. I would probably admit to in 
sessions trying to soften perspectives a little bit to try to maybe, can 
we see how that might be from the other side? You have to be 
careful about that, of course.  
Long:  In the course of your career, can you estimate how many lesbians 
you saw?  
Landforce:  Oh gosh, hundreds.  
Long:  Hundreds?  
Landforce:  Yeah. Because I had a full practice pretty much from the beginning, 
and it was pretty much thirty  years. 
Long:  And of that group, how many did you help with the alcohol 
problem or suicide?  
Landforce:  Well, there are estimates like twenty  percent  of lesbians overused 
alcohol. I didn't track it in that way exactly, but it was definitely— 
there was a prevalence for sure. The suicide rate was— definitely 
still is very— especially for young gay and lesbian folks still with 
the Internet and everything, still is very high. And is very out of 
proportion at that time.   
 I might segue to a couple of things I want to be  sure and work in, 
because it's in that time period of '85 to '90. And it also has to do 
with the suicide topic. I started my practice in '86 and so, I was 
involved with everything, all the resources, one of which, of course, 
was the U of O.  
 I got to know  a number of people at the Counseling Center, at the 
U of O, and in Student Affairs and one thing or another. And they 
did a very creative thing that I'm very proud of the U of O  for. In 
those years about '88, yeah, '87, '88, they did an all-campus survey 
to see— a needs assessment. And, one of the things that they came 
up with was that specifically there was no mental health services 
for lesbian women.  
 We had a full time gay male psychologist on the staff of the 
counseling center. There were other resources for gay men, but  
nothing for lesbians. The U of O fully funded a position at the 
Counseling Center specifically as a lesbian counselor.  
 That was very exciting time. So, that was 1989, and Kathy Sullivan 
and myself were both hired for that position. We both had full time 
private practices that we didn't want to end, so we shared the 
position. And, it was an incredibly— probably my favorite time 
because we just had this green light to just reach out to all the 
lesbians  on campus, find out what they need, which we already 
pretty much knew, and create things for them.   
 We did, of course, a lot of individual sessions, but then we did 
couples workshops, and coming out groups, and just whatever was 
the issue, support for recovery, whatever we felt that our clients 
needed, we had the green light to create.  
 One of the things that Kathy and I did that was so popular and so 
fun to do was called the Lesbian Life Series. Every month— so, we 
had ten of them, I guess. We would have a major program on a 
particular issue. And my very favorite one, and one of the things I 
want to be sure I mention is PFLAG, because PFLAG was huge in 
our work, was we did one on fathers and daughters, and it was the 
best attended and most impactful. It was just not a dry eye. It was 
incredible. 
 We had to move it out of the room we originally scheduled it for 
because so many people came out of the woodwork. And we had 
four PFLAG dads up there, and they talked about— 
Raiskin:  What does PFLAG stand for?  
Landforce:  PFLAG is Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays. And they 
talked about their lesbian daughters, and what that had been like, 
and their process toward acceptance. And, by the end, a question I 
guess that we prompted, “How do you feel about her now?” To a 
man, every man just started crying, and saying, "I am so proud of 
my daughter." And everybody was just— everybody's just crying.  
 And, afterwards, all the hugs and everything. Because it was just 
this unmet need where in that coming out process, people, lesbian  
women were losing their dads, especially as— I don't know if you 
know, but moms universally accept their gay kids so much more 
easily than fathers do.  
 And, so many of these women had never come out to their father, 
or they had, and they had never— basically just gotten a blank 
wall. So, to hear these strong, loving men up there saying, "I'm so 
proud of her." It was— so, we got to do that like every month. Just 
a very cool program. We did money and commitment and legal 
agreements, and how to get along in your department, and all that 
kind of stuff.  
 It was great for the U of O. I did that for a number of years and 
then I got more involved in other student affairs kind of thing. One 
of which I'll mention, which is that we worked a lot with the Greek 
system, and it was more generalized diversity training. But, I was 
out for everything that I did all the time. I'll just say a couple of 
things that I'm proud of in terms of awards and recognitions.  
 One of them is the Human Rights Award with the City of Eugene. I 
got that one year, which  was very cool, and I'm very proud of that. 
But even prouder, I got what's called the Omega Award, which is 
for a non-Greek who has been most influential in the Greek 
community. All the sororities and fraternities got together, and 
selected me for that award. I have— it's called the Order of Omega.  
Raiskin:  And what was the work you did in the sororities and fraternities?   
Landforce:  Just a lot of it— well, at that time we called it anti homophobia 
work. Kind of  morphed into diversity trainings. And one thing that 
I loved about the work that we did here that I wanted to really 
mention is the incredible support from all different parts of the 
Eugene community.  
 I would be on, I think hundreds of panels that I was on over the 
years, and I'd be the gay person. And then Sally Sheklow  would be 
the Jewish person. And, I laugh, and I think Sally would 
appreciate— she could have represented a lot of things. And then— 
Raiskin:  And you would talk about your own life?  
Landforce:  Yeah. And then somebody else would represent— we'd have 
various people of color with their communities. It was always a 
team, and I worked a ton with PFLAG. I definitely would never 
have been able to be as effective as I was without PFLAG.  
 And when I did outside consulting, which I did a lot of diversity 
trainings, like with big companies. And I had a contract with 
Weyerhaeuser. We went out to all these little tiny towns. And I'll 
tell you a story if you want, when it’s story time  about things that I 
particularly remember, but I would never go without PFLAG, 
because there's just nothing as powerful as a parent or a sibling.  
 And they were just amazing with— because it just calms 
everybody down. It's just like, "Oh, okay, here's these regular 
people. We've got a gay over there, that must be the gay,  but we've 
got regular people." Anyway, that's one of the things I loved about  
working in the Greek community. Working everywhere I worked 
was this team of people would come in, and I would often 
represent the lesbian point of view.  
 And the trick of that work, the scale of it, is really is gaining rapport 
with the audience, and then just suddenly, "Oh, I see." And that, I 
think, was one of the advantages that I had, and like in passing. 
And I wasn't a Greek, but I had great, great respect for the 
leadership of the Greek. Pan-Hellenic, I believe, is the leadership 
council of the sororities? And, wonderful, strong, intelligent, caring 
women. All you need is an all-woman group to really develop your 
leadership. Anyway, I just tell you about that, because that was a 
fun piece that we also did during that time, and it brought in a lot 
of other people.  
Raiskin:  And why was Weyerhaeuser interested in sending you to these 
smaller places?  
Landforce:  Well, they were getting lawsuits. And, as we got more into 
Measures 9 and 13 in the early '90s there, people were not okay 
with the sexist, homophobic firings. It wasn't just attitude at that 
point, they were doing blatantly illegal and unethical things.  
 The HR departments usually said, "Well, what the heck. We'll do a 
training if he wants to do a training." We'd then go to like Drain or 
up the  McKenzie to these  little tiny towns. And oh, it was a 
challenge.   
 One of the things, I was going to tell you a funny story. Because 
one of the things I thought we might talk about is specific 
incidences that I remember from over the years. And one of them 
was up in like, is it Blue River up there or something? Anyway, that 
one I think was the Forest Service,  actually.  
 And, we went through the whole thing and I did my thing as a 
lesbian, and PFLAG was doing their thing and everything. And this 
one guy, he just stands up and he says, "Well, all this is well and 
good, but there are no lesbians in this room." And they kind of 
looked at me and I said, "Well sir, excuse me…” “You're not a 
lesbian." And well, okay, I've never in my lesbian credentials 
challenged!  
 Fortunately, I was pretty cool by that point of how to work with it. I 
was like, "Well, what exactly do you mean?" He said, "Well, you 
know—" Because in those days we sort of dressed up 
professionally. Women wore skirts, and I probably had a skirt on or 
something. And he said, "Well, lesbians only wear pants. And your 
hair is way too long for a lesbian." And then he kind of like gets me  
with, "And you're way too good looking."  
 It's like, "Oh, I see. So, lesbians have to do this and this and this?" 
He said, "Yeah. There's no lesbians in this room." If I see the good 
news about that is that everybody around him then it's like rolling 
their eyes like, "Oh my  God, can you believe Joe?" Then, peer 
pressure. So, then people talk to him like that, that wasn't very nice. 
That's pretty stupid.   
 You don't know how you make inroads, or how you communicate 
your message, but having my lesbian credentials challenged was 
like, "What exactly do  you want me to tell you?" Anyway, that was 
just one piece of consulting.  
 And, among the other things I was doing, I also had a small private 
consulting company where I did just diversity trainings, and did 
them around the state, and actually around the region  on that one. 
And there's very active Portland, you know, community as you 
know. And I don't know if this is the right time to say it, but I 
brought a lot of materials and stuff for you all, pamphlets and stuff 
that show all the different activities that were happening here and 
in Portland and other places.  
Raiskin:  When you did your diversity training, what kind of information 
would you be giving people?  
Landforce:  Well, I loved my angle, which was psychological, because that's an 
angle that people can identify with. And, you can't argue with 
things like sadness and grief and disappointment and anger, and 
things that all humans experience. I did a lot of developmental 
theory, and talking about identity development. Helping people to 
understand each other, helping then, talking from a parent's point 
of view of what they might have expected in having a child, and 
how when their child out as gay and lesbian, the loss that they were 
going through.   
 In a certain way it was sort of public counseling sessions. It was 
very psycho-educational. And I'm happy that that was my part 
because other people then would often be on these programs to talk 
about the legal part, or to talk about policy where people can argue 
a lot more.  
 Nobody can argue that a parent had certain expectations for their 
child that might not be met at that moment of coming out. And 
people have a grief process, and it's going to take time, and those 
sorts of things. So, I did a lot of the psycho-emotional part of it.  
Raiskin:  So, this is kind of— it's kind of activist work. And, I'm wondering 
when we get to Measure 9, and 13 and even the measures before 
that, that you brought a myriad of skills to that experience.  
Landforce:  Yes. I was very, we all were, is my feeling about it. We were all 
very involved in 9. I think, I'm sure you've heard this before in your 
interviews. The Oregon Citizens Alliance did the biggest favor they 
can possibly have done to gay rights. You know what I mean?  
 We owe part of where we are today to The Oregon Citizens 
Alliance. Because they just galvanized things incredibly. And they 
were so farfetched.  If they'd put a reasonable ban kind of thing and 
the measure or something like that, it would've been pretty hard to 
fight.  
Raiskin:  Can you remember what Measure 9 was asking?   
Landforce:  Yeah. It was basically asking to enshrine in the Oregon constitution 
that homosexuality, I think, their words were “perverse, abnormal, 
unnatural.” It certainly— and then it said, “Do we want 
pedophiles, bestiality in Oregon?” That was their angle.  And it was 
so far to the far end of human consciousness that people that didn't 
even know they knew somebody gay— it was just like, "Well, that 
is wrong. That can't be right."  
 It provided this incredible galvanizing force, because people at that 
point, I  think a lot of people, I would say most lesbians that I knew 
at that point probably didn't feel that we deserve equal rights in 
terms of like the right to marriage was very controversial. That was 
one of the controversies, certainly was, "Well, we don't want that 
patriarchal institution."  
 And, maybe we're fairly satisfied with just not being harassed or 
tormented. They didn't necessarily think they needed or 
deserved— I mean, there's a lot of internalized homophobia. And 
that's the other thing I guess I would say is a major issue that we 
worked with in therapy, is that self-hatred, or that not feeling 
worthy. Feeling second class internally.  
 They probably would have remained silent. But, when you're being 
called all of that, they knew they weren't that. People got involved 
in ways that they didn't expect themselves to, and people probably 
wouldn't have expected. And, that's one of the really powerful 
things about that time from my memory and my perspective, is 
that in their own little way, it seemed to me that every lesbian I  
knew was doing something. Like the students, the graduate 
students were writing papers on the gay, the lesbian experience of 
people. I remember at a FedEx, you know, they were talking to 
their supervisors, you know, people at EWEB , they were requesting 
a diversity training. Everybody was doing something.  
 It reminded me a little bit, I'm listening to a book on tape right now. 
It is set in the World War II era. It reminded me a little bit of the 
war effort where, if you couldn't be in the front line, you grew 
vegetables, or you welded metal, or you did whatever you could 
do. And it just seemed like every woman did what she could do.  
 I think that's probably partly why I was so publicly out, was 
because I felt like I could do that, because  my family was very 
accepting. I had just, like I said, the passing thing, socioeconomics, I 
had education. So, I was more invulnerable. That was a role I could 
play. But, everybody was playing the role that they could play in 
the place where they were planted.  
Raiskin:  What kind of things did your clients bring to you in sessions during 
that time? What was Measure 9  triggering for them?  
Landforce:  It was huge. It was a tough time in therapy, because the assault on 
self-esteem was— it was so damaging. It's interesting in thinking 
about this whole time in this experience because there's so much 
that is energizing about it, that I tend to remember that. And, equal 
to that was the darkness. Because people were being hurt really  
badly, and they were hurting each  other in relationships because of 
their personal pain.  
 For instance, I would work with somebody, like all year and all fall, 
and they'd be in a pretty good place about themselves, accepting 
their sexual orientation. At a pretty good place with their partner. 
And then they would go home for Christmas for two weeks or 
whatever. And then they would come back and that first session 
back in January where they say, "You know, this is all wrong. I'm 
not gay. I'm absolutely not gay.  And this person that I have been 
living with and loving so well for the last three years, I don't love 
her. I don't want her. I'm out of here."  
 And, it was just so incredibly painful the assault on the humanity, 
and on the self-esteem. And, we all went through it, but to wake up 
every  morning in a newspaper and have half of the letters to the 
editor saying how awful you were, and how unworthy, and you 
shouldn't be here, and you shouldn't be alive. And  our lives are not 
real anyway.  
 And you try to not let that enter your consciousness,  but you know, 
a twenty-seven-year-old woman just trying to get a degree doesn't 
have the consciousness yet to filter that. I mean, heaven knows 
we're all still struggling with it, trying to filter things now in our 
environment. And, you're defenseless against that. It goes in at 
some level. And then as relationships often do, it goes right back at 
your closest person.   
 And then that is an assault on her worth, and self-esteem. And 
pretty soon these two lovely women are just tearing each other 
apart, and tearing each other down. And, I had people come back 
and, go back to men. Here you are owning a home with love of 
your life. And, now she's going to decide that, well, she's not gay, 
and so she's going to go date this guy over here and sleep with him. 
And it  was just damaging. It was just sad, and hard, and damaging.  
 It was, I guess, what I would say, it was meaningful and significant 
to be a lesbian therapist at that time, but it was hard. It was hard for 
all of us to come back to our support group and say,  "How do I 
keep myself healthy hearing this hour after hour?"  
 One of the things I did, one of the things that happened in my life 
that was influential, and then that I did in response. Because one of 
the things that we all learned, you know, in women studies was, 
the personal is political. If it happens to you, it's happening to other 
people, turn it around and do something about it. Don't just be a 
victim about it. Sort of  the, “Get out there and march.” 
 A very close friend of mine in 1989, she had graduated from 
Brigham Young on an athletic scholarship, and that's why she went 
there. But, if you could imagine Brigham Young in the late '80s. 
And, she tried to come out, and it was just horrendous. She ended 
up committing suicide on New Year's Eve of that year. It was 
devastating to me, we were very close friends.   
 I said, "Okay," you know, "What is this? What can we do here?" 
And so, I created a program called Surviving the Holidays that 
then I proceeded to offer really for the next twenty-five years. Like,  
I offered it every December, multiple times at first, and then 
different places in the state just talking about the damage to our 
self-esteem, and what happens when we try to fit in, and try to not 
be ourselves and, and how to survive that. And, I had twenty rules 
for surviving the holidays.  
 It turned out to be a positive thing. You know, women would 
come. In that era, I think just an awful lot of women came through 
Surviving the Holidays. And we had, for instance, the forty-eight-
hour rule, which is that  you couldn't be more than forty-eight  hours 
without what we called a lesbian snack.  
 Because remember, this is all before cell phones or anything like 
that. And, plane travel wasn't the way it is now. People would say, 
"Well, I'm going home for Christmas.  And so, I'm paying all this 
money for my airfare, so I should stay for three weeks." It's like, 
"Oh God, this is not good."  
 I'd help people practice, for forty-eight  hours, you can be with your 
family, and then you got to get out of there. Because I'd listened 
really carefully about these patterns. And, most of us do okay for a 
while, but we cannot  sustain that. We had rules like that for 
Surviving the Holidays.  
Raiskin:  And what would a lesbian snack be?   
Landforce:  That could be a book that you took? A lesbian novel, or some of 
your music. Or it could be if you knew a place, like if you were 
going home to Milwaukee, Wisconsin or something. You knew a 
place down the street, or you had a friend that you  were pretty sure 
was gay. Go have coffee with her, so you'd have something to 
ground yourself. Or, a phone call. That was harder back then 
because you had to be in your parents' kitchen or something.  
 But, go to the phone booth, call your girlfriend. You asked about 
the dark side and that certainly was a dark aside. I have another 
dark side story. Are we doing okay on time?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Landforce:  We're doing okay?  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Landforce:  Okay. When I was at the counseling center, this just kind of shows 
you about the measures, you asked about that, what was the 
impact? Because it was just a tough— it was a tough time. The 
word went out that they had hired a lesbian therapist at the 
counseling center.  
 One of my most impactful experiences when I knew this was so 
critical. It was so critical that we were doing this work. I saw a new 
client come in and sit down. And, again, I said, "So, are you 
lesbian? Are you gay?" We used gay a lot then. "Yes." And then I 
could see that she wasn't going to be forthcoming. I talked a little  
bit about it, and a little bit about myself and about counseling. And, 
"I'm glad you're here, what kinds of things do you want to talk 
about?" And she said, "Well, I just needed to know that you're gay. 
They said there was a gay person here, but if you hadn't been here 
today, I was going to go home and kill myself tonight."  
 I just went into, of course, "Well I'm here, and I'm here for you. And 
I will be here for you, and we'll make it through this. And I know 
how hard it is." And then, of course, I moved to ideation and plan 
and stuff like that. And, "Did you have an idea how serious this is? 
Do you have an idea about what you would do?" And she reached 
in her backpack and pulled out a pistol. This is  right up here in the 
Counseling Center.  
 I said, "Okay, you had a plan. You were serious about this." And 
she said, "Yeah, there's nobody that loves me. There's nobody that 
likes me. Everybody hates me, everybody hates us." And then she 
went into a lot of anger. It took sessions and sessions to get to the 
pain, but she was just angry at everybody. Just, you know, screw 
this. And, I'm ending it, there's no point. There's absolutely no 
point.  
 And eventually— I mean, I couldn't get the gun from her at that 
time because we've just  met. But, eventually I ended up— and the 
Counseling Center was wonderful. They let me do what was 
important to do with women. For lesbian women, it isn't always 
just to sit in an institutional place, and talk to somebody.   
 Her most important being in her life was her dog. So, we went out 
and played with the dog, and played fetch and that's how she 
would eventually talk to me. Eventually, away from the 
Counseling Center, I was able to say, "Will you bring me your gun 
next time?" And she eventually surrendered it to me, and we went 
on. But, I just tell that story as a— to talk about how serious it was, 
and what an incredible assault it was on human dignity, and how it 
reached people.  
Raiskin:  And you also said that it was a great step forward for the 
community. In what way was that?  
Landforce:  Well, because we won. I think just having everybody rally and get 
just barely enough people on our side to say, "This is not right."  
Raiskin:  Well, people had to come out to straight people— 
Landforce:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  —to convince them to vote— 
Landforce:  Yes, they did.  
Raiskin:  —against it.  
Landforce:  Yeah. I would say of all of our strategies coming out, that was the 
great era of coming out. I'd say the ‘90s in Eugene, that was what 
everybody needed to do,  was encouraged to do, did do. We're 
celebrating because they did it, and just in so many different ways.  
And that is the way that the world changes. That's Measure 9, and 
the impact that it had, which was a huge focus.  
Raiskin:  I have a question apropos to  nothing. A lot of lesbians were 
involved in co-counseling.  
Landforce:  Oh, yes. 
Raiskin:  I'm wondering what you, as a professional therapist, what you 
thought about that movement in the lesbian community?  
Landforce:  Yeah, it was very, very popular at the time. I think there was a lot 
of value that came from it. I probably have a little bit of a 
proprietorship about how it's done. There were some very good 
organizations training people. There were also people that just said, 
"Hey, there's this thing called co-counseling. Tell me your deepest 
secrets." And that didn't have such a positive outcome.  
 In general, I think teaching people to listen carefully and 
respectfully, and share in a vulnerable way is a positive thing. So, 
we were— I mean, I was  involved in some trainings around that. I 
don't remember a lot of competitive feelings about that.  
 But then that's partly because, like any profession, there' s a pecking 
order. I was already dealing with the psychologist thinking they 
were so  much better than we were. I didn't really want to tack on 
some other effort of counseling.  
Long:  What is the focus of co-counseling?   
Landforce:  Well, it's where you teach people to be  counselors to each other. 
You take turns, when it's well done, you take turns and you listen 
carefully and you paraphrase. You learned some of the basics of 
counseling. And it gives people a chance to be heard. That's a 
hugely important component of mental health, of human mental 
health.  
 I think that when it was kept at that extent, I think it was very 
positive. The thing it doesn't have is a long-term view, and a 
treatment plan. And, where are you going to go when that pain 
comes out? Where are you going to go with it? And to me that's the 
difference with therapy, is that the therapist is prepared then to see 
the long-term.  
 When you're in that crisis that can be created by sharing, you have 
to have somebody that's confident to hold that pain, and know that 
it's going to get better. And people couldn't necessarily do that for 
each other, especially since they were there with their own pain. 
Certainly, that's one of the things we taught a lot, was managing 
grief and anger. Because there was this, I'm telling you, there was a 
lot of pain.  
Raiskin:  So, what happens after the '90s? Like the early '90s we have the 
measures. And then what was in your life?  
Landforce:  Well, you know, one of the things that happened in therapy, and 
that's my lens, is that the straight therapists got better and better in 
working with  lesbian clients. In a certain way we were in that  
position, I guess, an enviable position of sort of working ourselves 
out of a job. Although there were plenty of clients, because we did 
a lot of training of therapists.  
 And therapists are  generally pretty responsive to learning  and to 
getting better. I did a lot of training both with the Lane County 
Psychologist's Association and the Oregon Counseling Association, 
and Oregon Association for Women in Psychology. And we had a 
lot of straight therapists. I would have certainly at these 
conferences, you know, fifty straight therapists hanging on every 
word of, how do you nuance this? What would lesbian client be 
feeling about that? How is that relationship different than a man 
and a woman relationship?  
 It was a very exciting time professionally for me, because of that 
interest. It was an interesting juxtaposition, because on the one 
hand, it was hard on a daily basis in the ways that I'm telling you. 
On the other hand, there's a certain  rock star quality  to it, because 
everybody wanted to know what it was like to be a lesbian.  
 It was kind of heady getting to teach these people about  the 
nuances of our lives, and the language, you know, we did a lot 
around language, and issues. And, to their credit, straight 
therapists, I think, mostly of women with lesbian women as clients, 
got very good. I think because, now, you would do your referral 
based on the quality of the therapists, like how they actually did 
their work, not their identity.  
Raiskin:  Because it must have been uncomfortable, or was it, for so many 
lesbians to know that they're seeing the same therapist?  
Landforce:  Yeah, I think it was. It was crazy. It was pretty crazy, I have to say.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever feel talked about, like— 
Landforce:  Oh, yeah, big time. It's just part of the animal of therapy. People 
always, to a certain extent— at that time, we'd probably say stalk 
their therapists, now we'd say Google their therapists. Just because 
of the intimacy of the connection. Maybe less for me because I was 
so public, that I think people probably— I talked about my partner, 
and I talked about things in my presentations. But, when I was 
actually— when I was working in sports medicine, well, I guess it 
was at South Eugene? I think it might have been Eugene. Might 
have been at Chico State, anyway.  And I found out that my picture 
was up on the inside of the locker in the women's locker room. It's 
like, "Oh man, I don't know about this," you know— I'm glad they 
like me, but  I'm not sure I want to be the  object here. It was pretty— 
and now in retrospect, it was heady times. And the whole U of O 
gig didn't hurt, you know, being the face of lesbianism for a while.  
Long:  And you were a lifeline for so many  women. 
Landforce:  Yeah.  That was the cool thing. And, when I got scared, because 
that's the other piece is the fear. Because I'd go out in these 
boondock places and self-identify, and just have my name, you 
know, sexual orientation as a specialist on a building, my offices  
around town. I'd exercise more caution than any of the other 
therapists in my building of when I came and when I left.  
Long:  Did you ever have a serious problem?  
Landforce:  Yeah. I had at one of my offices, I had some pretty homophobic 
graffiti, and I ended up— and it was somebody that had been to 
one of my workshops. And before that, I was more open with my 
own relationship with  my partner, and after that I wasn't. Because, 
I said too much about where we lived, just trying to be, you know, 
the girl next door, but it was too much information.  
 And the same guy showed up several different places where I had 
talked about in my presentation that we went to  the dog park, and 
the softball, and the U of O, and any identifying things that I had 
said. And it's like, "Mm-hmm, okay, I think I'll  be a little bit more 
discreet.”  
Long:  Did you talk to the police about it?  
Landforce:  No, I didn't. On that one, my colleagues were so supportive that we 
just scheduled ourselves to arrive together and leave together, our 
office. But, certainly I certainly had all the other things that I think 
other gay and lesbian people have had. I mean, I've lost housing. 
When I was doing— actually, here's an interesting story.  
 When I was doing my master's degree, I was living in— it was in  
South Eugene, actually, in a rental house, renting a house with my 
partner. And, everything was great, and great, and great. And we  
were great, and great. And the landlord loved us, loved us, because 
we were handy lesbians. And everything looked so much better in 
the house, and in the yard when we were there. And I was doing a 
paper on lesbian sex.  
 I had JoAnn Loulan’s books on lesbian passion and lesbian sex. 
And, they were just with my other textbooks, it was like no big 
deal. But they came through to fix the toilet or some such thing and 
they were laying out. Of course, they had to be laying on the bed, of 
course. And, the next day it's like, "Well, we've made other plans. 
We're selling the house. We have other renters." We got kicked out. 
I was in the middle of my master's thesis, and they say, "You have a 
week to get out." So, we did.  
Long:  What year was that?  
Landforce:  That would have been in '85.  
Long:  There wasn't housing protection at that time?  
Landforce:  Well, there might have been, but it wasn't commonly known how 
you would proceed.  
Raiskin:  There  wasn't.  
Landforce:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Because of 51.  
Long:  Because of measure 50— the Referendum 51.   
Raiskin:  There wasn't any?  
Landforce:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yeah, that was my impression. I mean, it  
didn't really cross our minds. It wasn't something people did. We 
just got out. And then, if we have all probably been spit on, and 
yelled at. And, that's the type of thing I would talk about in my 
trainings. Because, again, using my connection with PFLAG, and 
sort of that All-American girl kind of a persona.  Like, I said, “No, 
I've lost housing, I've lost jobs, I've been spit on. I've had my car 
damaged, I've had a flat tire at South Eugene High school, actually. 
Flat tire, I've had my car keyed, I've had  graffiti. I've been yelled at, 
I've been chased.” And people were just like, "No, not you." It's 
like, "Yeah, that's who it is. That's what we're working with here. 
And that's why I'm here, and that's why you're here.  " 
Raiskin:  What's your relationship— I know you live far away now, but have 
you kept contact with women in the community here?  
Landforce:  You know, I have friends, my greatest difficulty probably if I were 
to identify one of the most difficult parts of my life, it would be 
trying to make the transition away from Eugene. And, I didn't do it 
well. I did not do it well. And, I think we all have times when we'd 
go back in our lives and change it. Because what I did was, well, I 
fell in love with somebody in Corvallis.  
 And, at that time she was on  the faculty of OSU. Her job didn't feel 
very commutable. And, I kind of, actually made an incorrect 
judgment that my job was more commutable. But actually when  
you're in a referral-based business, it really is probably the least 
commutable of anything. Because you have to live in the 
community where you're expecting to help people, and expecting 
referrals.  
Raiskin:  You can't just see people in your office?  
Landforce:  Yeah, but— let's see, how am I trying to say this? What I tried to do 
was commute from Corvallis and keep my practice here. And 
there's just too much that goes on in a community that's important 
to know about, and to be a part of. You don't realize it, how much 
of your just every day is just because you know where the women 
are, or the stores are, how the team's doing. You know what's going 
on. 
 I would take the Register-Guard  for a period of time, but that was 
pretty unwieldy. I'm getting it two days late and $40 a month, you 
know, it's like— So, I tried to come down here, but then of course, 
any practice has its ups and downs, where people would cancel 
and then it had the spaces. And then they had to do extra. They 
really did need a session tomorrow, but I didn't really want to drive 
forty  miles down for a session tomorrow, but you really do need it.  
 It's a pretty hard profession, actually, to not be in town. I've tried to 
do that for ten years, and keep my practice here, partly because I 
was teaching in the Women in Transition program at Lane, also. I 
was able to combine it so I could do more on the days that I was 
here.   
 But that was really a sad time because I couldn't be here for 
women. I mean, there's a certain reality of, I'm here for you, you 
know, which means that I'm going to smile at you, at the post 
office, you  know, I'm going to wave to you across the gym. We're in 
this together. I really missed that. And then I moved my practice to 
Corvallis for five years, and all my clients were from Eugene.  
 My clients came up to see me in Corvallis, which was easier for me, 
but not for them. And then that didn't help me really integrate into 
the Corvallis community, because I was only seeing Eugene clients. 
That was kind of a tough time. I think a private practice needs a 
grounding.  
 I retired earlier than I would have liked. I really enjoyed what I was 
doing. But, we moved then from Corvallis to the farm, which is 
forty  miles North of Corvallis up near Amity  and Rickreall,  in that 
area. Then it was a two hour commute to Eugene. And it's like, 
"Oh, okay." 
Raiskin:  How did you end up on a farm?  
Landforce:  Interesting question. It's a fourth generation family farm in my 
family. Yes. It was passed on from my grandma to my mom, to me. 
When I was lucky enough to marry a good Wisconsin farmer girl, 
and she  knows what to do with it. She has a huge garden and, we 
have a little business where we sell tomato, tomato starts in a little 
farm stand on the property and everything.   
 So, I retired to do that, and I was going to go back to work, and do 
some more professional work. But, honestly, managing a 160 acre 
farm is kind of kind of time consuming. I still might do more, but 
now McMinnville would be my closest community.  
 And, like I said, you could say that you were a lesbian and a 
therapist, and that might be meaningful to some people, but not in 
the way it was. Because lesbians have their therapists and they're 
doing a good job.  
Raiskin:  Interesting. And, you said you're interested in loneliness.  
Landforce:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And, we've been talking to people about what might be different 
about aging as a lesbian?  
Landforce:  That's a current topic, for sure. I am thinking actually about starting 
something, a group or a blog or something about those of us  that 
are in the country as well. I would just say this because, here we are 
talking. But, I'm telling you, all those fears that we have about 
what's going on in the world? You get out in the rural areas and it's 
all true. It's all true. It's been a shock.  
Long:  Can you explain what you mean?  
Landforce: Well, our closest neighbor has an arsenal, let's just start there. And, 
with every right in the world to have his guns, and to shoot his 
guns, and his big motorbikes or whatever, and do things on your  
property. It's the wild, wild west out there. It's the long time 
farmers, it's the “might makes right.” 
 And they do not cotton  to working with women. Worst of all being 
told by women what to do. And, it's two women. We talk about it 
often, like is it because we're gay? Is it because we're women? Is it 
because we're older? Is it because we're outsiders, even though it's 
been in my family for four generations? Is it that we eat organic? 
That might be one of the worst of them. What is it that is hard to get 
the rapport? It's hard to get the respect? And both of us, maybe 
especially me, but Donna certainly in a faculty position, being very 
comfortable socially, and gaining rapport and being well thought 
of. 
 And, for me who depended a lot on the ability to gain rapport, 
Whoo, it's tough to just be looked at by some of these folks. Just like 
blank slate, “I’d just as soon— “ you know, not kill you, it doesn't 
feel dangerous like that, but, “I would just really like it if you 
weren't here. I’d just really don't— I'll say hello to you, but I don't 
really want to at  all.” 
Raiskin:  So, you think there are lesbians in the community?  
Landforce:  Yeah. And you know, it's odd. I don't think the  lesbian aspect is the 
most off-putting to people. I really think it's more about being 
women. It's really interesting because, the  things they respect in the 
country, of course, are strong women, physically strong. Power 
tools, pickup trucks, and the ability to take care of your land. So,  
you're land looks good. It's not all weedy, you have a gravel on 
your lane. Your oak trees are trimmed.  
 If you're a good caretaker of the land, that's what gains respect. 
And, if two women want to do that together, all right. The fact that 
they're together, the fact that they're women, that's a little odd. 
Does that make sense? Teasing that out.  It's hard to tell, but the 
absence of a man— it's almost like more the absence of a man than 
it is that it’s  two women. I think it's more— because people often 
have assumed that we're sisters, and we'll say that, and they really 
want that to be the case. So, we often just let that be the case.  
 But, it's sort of like, "How are you doing it out here by yourself 
without a man?" So, it's an odd animal. We managed the farm for 
years and years. All of my clients here in Eugene would have heard 
about the farm, and know about the farm. But, then when my mom  
died, we had a family transition. And then Donna and I have been 
there really just full time for three years.  
 I've managed it really my whole life, but we're really still getting 
used to it a lot. Really a  lot. And, here's what I'm saying almost, is 
that, some of the country lesbians, me particularly, have less in 
common with than like straight women, other places, if that make 
sense. Like, say where we are now in McMinnville, we've met some 
of the lesbians  and they're pretty wild, wild West.  
Raiskin:  And do you mean by that conservative politically?   
Landforce:  Yeah. And just sort of, rough and tough. And, they're willing to just 
race their pickup truck right next to the boys. And Donna is from 
Milwaukee, she's, kind of a tough working class kid. She's out there 
competing. And she's very strong physically, and so she's, kind of, 
holds us— holds down the fort in terms of the competing with the 
guys.  
 She often goes out and talks to the guys, because I'm way too 
wordy for the guys. I'm way too soft, I'm way too like, trying to see 
what would work for them. It's just like, "Ma'am, where do you 
want it? Just tell me what to do." And, I'm trying to say, "Well, it 
wasn't exactly what I had in mind." And Donna's more able to say, 
"Hey, that's wrong, move it."  
Raiskin:  What's your thoughts about, as you age, and where do you want to 
live, and what community you want around you?  
Landforce:  Well, it's one of the reasons that I'm working a little bit with the 
loneliness aspect or social isolation. Because, the women we do talk 
to, it's so prevalent. It's prevalent in the country, but it's also 
prevalent in the cities. It just seems like— this is just my latest 
philosophy. So, it just seems like the boomer women are  getting a 
little lost. Are getting a little lost from the power, and the skills, and 
talents, and all the things that we offered the world, and I think still 
do have to offer to the world.  
 But, I've just talked to a lot of women who they're just spending  
some time here doing this, and spending some time here doing  
that, whether it's with their grandkids or taking some trips, or 
helping with this one project. I don't notice women really getting 
very centered on what they would like their third chapter to be. 
 And, if they were happy with that, then that's okay. I mean, that's 
not an issue, but I think a lot of people are not happy with that. I 
think they feel like, say in their sixties  like, "Hey, I've got at least 
twenty, thirty  for me, forty-two more years, whatever, of life left.  
Raiskin:  You've got a fourth chapter.  
Landforce:  I've got a fourth chapter. And my grandma, she died right there on 
the farm at ninety-nine  and a half. And that's the other side, that's 
my mom's side. I'd probably have a little while to go here, I hope. I 
just think that's our next thing, is sort of, how do we focus? And, 
my other angle on that is all the distractions.  
 I just think that we've really lost our ability to attend, and to attend 
to what we want to accomplish, or attend to our friend, or attend to 
our child or whatever it is. Because, of course, all of the distractions 
in our environment, and all the devices all the time.  
 And, it's hard for people to have a sustained conversation. It's hard 
to maintain long-term friendships. And it just seems to me that a lot 
of women I know in our sixties  are just biding  time. And we're a 
generation that gave something to the world, and I think can do it 
again. I think we're happier when we're doing it.   
Raiskin:  You say people are biding  time, what can you imagine that this 
generation of women could be doing?  
Landforce:  Well, tackling a problem in the world, like the environment, 
choosing something that's important, and focusing on it, and 
believing that you can make a difference. It seems to me that a lot 
of us are wringing our hands, and feeling very powerless.  
Raiskin:  And you've seen women come together and make a change— 
Landforce:  Exactly.  
Raiskin:  —before?  
Landforce:  Exactly. Yeah. I just don't buy it for a minute that  we can't do 
something, or that we're too old to do something. I understand and 
appreciate aging. I also think we can get too focused on that. Most 
of us have twenty  more good years, and then twenty  after that to 
put ourselves out to pasture, or whatever. But, there's just a way 
that we need, I think, that we need that intimacy with other 
women.  
 My master’s thesis was actually was on women's friendships, and 
the critical importance of women's friendships. And, when I talk to 
women now, you don't see that close circle of women friends where 
you meet frequently, and where you are in intimate conversation 
with each other.  
 People might meet for watch the grandkids play or something like 
that. But, in terms of really who are you, and what do you want,  
and what's meaningful to you, and what are you struggling with? 
And, how can we work together for something? That “tend  and 
befriend” that women need for mental health, for us all to be 
healthy.  
 And, I think, I mean, you're getting all my opinions and things  
now. I see so many women sequestering themselves off into  what I 
call their own nest. So  much home improvement going on. I was 
like, "Okay now, how much do we need to nest as sixty-year-olds?" 
You know what I mean? Isn't there that next piece where we have 
the nest feathered, and there's something more to do.  
 And, I guess that, in preparing for this, and really thinking about 
it— you know, those eras of our twenties, thirties, early forties are 
so influential in who we are as people. I'm recognizing that I have  
that so much to my core of the meaningfulness of doing something. 
I just can't imagine, after having this experience that we're talking 
about today, I can't imagine just like some of my friends are— let's 
see this. Well, I have to remember. This could be awkward by a 
number of different people.  
Raiskin:  There's lots of perspectives.  
Landforce:  There's lots of perspectives, yes for me, I will say. That golfing and 
cruising, I could do those activities for a while, but I know they 
would not sustain me. I know they would not sustain me for the 
next thirty  years. And, that's what I feel is that loneliness that's 
creeping into our lives. That social isolation that we're over here,  
and we have wonderful nests. And we show each other our new 
decks or whatever. And  we do it too, but— 
Raiskin:  You've got a big nest. Acres of nest.  
Landforce:  Yeah, with a lot of feathers, that need to happen. But, what is that 
thing that we can do, and that our generation can do, and that also 
gives us individual happiness?  
Raiskin:  Your professional expertise seems really needed in the assisted 
living world. It's very clear that the assisted living, and retirement 
homes are not ready for us.  
Landforce:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  They don't know how to— there's no training about how to deal 
with gay and lesbian people. And that there's work for you to do 
there.  
Landforce:  Well, thank you for that.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Landforce:  Thank you very much. Thank you, Judith, for that. That is great. 
That is a great point.  
Raiskin:  And it has a lot to do with loneliness.  
Landforce:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  If you're now almost maybe a closeted person, again, in that place.   
Landforce:  That is a great, that is— what a gem. Thank you.  
Raiskin:  Is there something that we haven't asked you? And then we have 
an ending question— 
Landforce:  Oh, you have— 
Raiskin:  —that I want to make sure we cover the— 
Landforce:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  —stories that you're interested in.  
Landforce:  I do have just a tiny bit of outline. But, it's just tiny.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Landforce:  I mean, I had four things I wanted to be sure and say about why 
this time in Eugene was so different, and so influential. And then I 
had a little something I wanted to read— 
Raiskin:  Good.  
Landforce:  —that really speaks to me. Just a few things I wanted to just be sure 
and work in.  
Raiskin:  Thank you.  
Landforce:  Okay. I'm going to tell you one more story. It's just a story.  
Raiskin:  Okay.   
Landforce:  Okay. When I was at the U of O about one of the funniest— I'll say 
this, this is one of the funniest experiences I had. You know, I  was 
working with the student groups and things like that. Of course, in 
college your main psychological issue is identity development.  
 I was advising the gay and lesbian group or whatever. They 
decided the thing they wanted to do to educate, was they wanted 
to have a “Kiss-In” at Valley River Center  [laughs]. This gives you a  
flavor for, you know, this would have been like early '90s, '91 
probably.  
 I'm their advisor, and for that age, that's the perfect thing. They're 
just experiment ing, who am I, how far out can I go? And 
everything like that. So, I say, "Okay, well, good luck.  I'm not 
coming over."  They're madly kissing away in the middle of Valley 
River Center.  
 I get this phone call, and it's like, "Are you with the University of 
Oregon?" "Yes." "Well, are you a professional?" "Yes, I am." "Are 
you on  the faculty?  " "Yes I am." "Well, what on earth are you doing 
letting these kids over here?" I said, "Well, sir, I'm really— I can see 
why that would be concerning  to you. I can see why that got your 
attention."  
 And, it turned out in our conversation that he was actually very 
pro-gay rights. He said, "But, you're ruining it all. It will never 
happen if you have these ridiculous things going on. And 
everybody's seeing that, and everybody's disgusted.” And all of  
this. Then I went into little developmental theory. And it's like, 
"Well, it's just, they're twenty. By the time they're twenty-five, 
they'll be looking back, and they'll be busy trying to get jobs or  
something. It's just a thing. It's just right now. Don't worry about it, 
it's just today." And so, we kind of got out of it. But, I just wanted to 
share that  because I did never think I would be part of monitoring a 
“Kiss-In.” 
 I just wanted to just say, just why I think this experience was so 
incredible for so many people. And, I've already said a lot of it, but 
one of them was because of, like I said, all lesbians  were doing 
something.  You had that, that war effort, kind of  feeling. I talked 
about the fact— well, a little bit about— that we weren't so 
distracted, because we were in our thirties, and so we had small 
houses. And we might have had pets, but we didn't have kids, or 
that we weren't distracted. 
 If the MLK march was this Saturday, we were all going to be there. 
And now like with the Women's March, we went over, but, several 
of our friends are like, "Well, we're having our kitchen redone, and 
we just can't get away on Saturday." Or, taking care of older 
parents, or, there's just stuff. Or a grandchild, the last minute 
needed babysitting.  
 And, that was one of the things— and we didn't have devices. 
When we went into events, we were wholehearted. Because I 
remember some of these panels, where we would, all our team 
would  come in and we were all focused on it. We'd all hug and it  
was real hugs. Like, there you are. And then, we do it, and then 
we'd go out afterwards together. There were no phones. Because 
now so often as we all know, you do an event and it means a lot. 
And  then the next minute, everybody's on their phone, off to the 
next thing. It's like, "What text did I get while I was here?" That was 
part of it, that focus.  
 The other thing was every major organization in the city, or many 
of them, were on board, were really invested, like the U of O. Like I 
said, up at LCC and I wanted to mention Kate Barry, and Jill 
Bradley, and the work they did. The Unitarian Church gave us all 
of our facilities for free. EWEB  actually did some progressive 
programming.  
 People got  involved, and you had that support, sort of, structural 
support. And then, the last thing I wanted to finish on is, my little 
thing, which is that we were on the right side of the issue. And we 
knew we were on the side of the issue, and the right side of history. 
And that's one of the things that I find so difficult now, is that the 
issues can be so gray.  
 And, I would just say because of my current life, like organic 
farming. We feel so strongly about the food supply, and the 
amount of chemicals that conventional farmers use. And, we talk 
all we can about that, and we raise organic, and sell organic. And 
we put signs on our property advertising our organic farm stand 
that say “Organic s—Not just for leftists anymore.” [laughs]   
 We try to humor it, we try to— we care about it, but when you get 
into the complexities of the food supply, it's gray. You try to 
educate, but there's not the righteousness in a good way that we 
had done. We knew it was right to honor and respect people, and 
to fight for that. 
 Those are just some of the reasons I think it all came together the 
way that it did. And, this is a poem that was just— this is a thank 
you card for one of the many fundraiser receptions, and things like 
that, that we did. It's a poem  from the National Women's Political 
Caucus. Can I read it?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Landforce:  This  will be my last thing. It says:  
“We are in for a very, very long haul. I'm asking you for everything 
you have to give. We will never give up. You will lose your youth, 
your sleep, your patience, your sense of humor, and occasionally 
the understanding and support of people that you love very much. 
In return, I have nothing to offer you, but your pride in being a 
woman, and all your dreams you've ever had for your daughters, 
and nieces and granddaughters. Your future and the certain 
knowledge that at the end of your days, you will be able to look 
back and say that once in your life, you gave everything you had 
for justice.”  
Raiskin: Nice. Thank you very much.  
Long:  Yeah, thank you.  
Landforce:  Yeah, thank you. Thank you very much.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  