
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Janice Baker and Ginger Newman 
on October 20, 2018, taking place in the University of Oregon 
Libraries’ recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies.  The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in UO libraries’ Special Collections and University 
Archives; and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of 
Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Janice and Ginger, please let us know if you agree to be recorded 
for this project, and that you give your permission for the 
university to preserve and make available your recorded and 
transcribed interview.   
Baker:  Yes, I do.  
Newman:  Yes, I do. The university can use it.  
Long:  Okay, great. Well, let's start with a basic question. Janice, you're on 
my left, so I'll ask you first. Can you please tell us when and where 
you were born, where you grew up, and something about your 
early background?  
Baker:  I was born in Pasadena, California in 1952. I grew up in La 
Crescenta  in California, which was close— my entire life until I 
graduated from high school. Something else about my background 
is I was raised in the Metaphysical  Church of Science of Mind in the 
1950s and ‘60s, which was very unusual at the time because there 
was only two in the United States. So, I had a rather odd religious 
upbringing, which I think impacts my life to today.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what it was?  
Baker:  Science of Mind was started by a man named Ernest Holmes in the 
‘30s, and it was kind of an eclectic mixture of many different 
religions. They believed in reincarnation, the power of positive 
thinking. They believed in Christianity a little bit, but they did not 
believe that Christ was a deity, they just believed he was a regular 
guy. So when I grew up I thought that anybody could walk on 
water if you just had enough faith.  
 I didn't grow up with a concept of— no heaven or hell, nothing like 
that. We had a lot of people come from Hollywood, and the  
surrounding entertainment areas and do things like be guest 
lecturers in our church, or give a sermon. The one that impacted me 
the most, I was about nine, and we had the man who trained 
Strongheart the dog from the silent films come, and he believed in 
telepathic communication with animals. I heard about this the first 
time when I was nine, and my father was sitting next me going 
“harrumph, harrumph”  because obviously he thought it was not so 
great that I  was hearing this, but it was really fascinating.  
 Those were the kind of experiences I had in church as a child. Our 
minister was a woman,  her name was Sally Chaffee. I think that my 
really, really unusual religious upbringing had a lot to do with 
myself today, especially being an artist.  
Long:  Ginger, how about you?  
Newman:  Well, I was born in 1946 in Jacksonville, Florida. For the first couple 
of years of my life, my parents moved around and we lived with 
relatives or whatever. When I was five, we moved to a little house 
in Atlantic Beach, and I stayed there until I graduated from high 
school, and then I hit the road as soon as I graduated. I wanted out 
of there because I had already had by the time I graduated from 
high school two—from my point of view—lesbian relationships. 
We were in love, and we were sexual, and all that stuff. One in the 
seventh grade, and one in the tenth grade, but they were both 
straight women and finally said— went back to being straight.   
 So, I wanted out of Florida. I really thought I was the only lesbian 
in the world, I really did. I thought lesbians were weird, yeah, 
because the teacher across the street from me, she and her partner 
lived together. My dad used to say, "You know what they are, don't 
you?"  
 Anyway, I grew up like that. Then I went to Atlanta to go to 
nursing school, all women. No men in nursing in those days. I went 
to nursing school for three years in Atlanta, and I had my third 
girlfriend when I was— well, it was probably in about 1966, and 
she was a nursing student also. She was from a different school 
than I was from, but we met at our rotation in the mental hospital 
in the State of Georgia, and we fell in love.  
 Then one day she called me a year later or something, and said, "I 
can't do this anymore." She was married quickly, and she's the only 
one of the three that I have no idea what has happened to her, and I 
would just love to know. I would love to find her in Lesbian 
Connections  someday. It's just my fantasy that she is the one who—  
 And the other one, my seventh grade girlfriend, is still my very, 
very, very good friend. She lives in Berkeley. Her daughter who 
is— I mean, I'm seventy-two, so her daughter is fifty-two, is a 
lesbian. So that's pretty exciting.  
Long:  What was the name of the  woman that you weren't able to be back 
in touch with?  
Newman:  Gloria Arnold. I tried to look her up one time, but I wasn't able—  
Baker:  I've tried to look her up, too. 
Newman:  I don't know what her married name was. I have no idea what 
happened  to her. Then after that I pretty much decided I was the 
only one. I lived in Atlanta for four years. I can remember I would 
get drunk a lot when I first got out of school because my dad was 
an alcoholic, and I was miserable in my life.  
 So I would— I remember one time there was a party going on 
downstairs at the apartment that I lived in with three other women, 
and I sat in the closet and I kept saying the word “lesbian, lesbian, 
lesbian.” I wasn't out, but I was freaked out.  
 Anyway, so that went that way for a while, and then I moved— 
Raiskin:  Can I ask you a question? So what negative feelings or 
representations did you have about lesbians to have these feelings?  
Newman:  That was negative?  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Newman:  That everybody else had negative feelings, that my dad would say 
those things. I had an uncle who was gay. No one in my family 
acknowledged it at all. My uncle would come, they would never 
ask about this partner of fifty years who lived together with him, 
owned a store. They just were— please. After he died, my cousin 
said, "Do you think he was gay?" I said, "Are you kidding?"   
 So I had that experience, and the people across the street, Dr. 
Maynard. Here, these two women had their doctorates. One of 
them was a grade school principal, and the other was a high school 
math teacher with their doctorates. She was so butchy, the high 
school math teacher, but she wore skirts because you had to. She 
wore men's short sleeved shirts, and when she'd talk, she hung her 
thumb in the top of her skirt. 
 Anyway, I just— I don't know. It's because people— but you didn't 
even hear that much about lesbians in those days. I just knew that I 
couldn't tell my family. I knew that it was not okay because I heard 
the things my dad said, and I didn't see anybody else in the world 
like me.  
Long:  Did you read lesbian pulp novels?  
Newman:  No, I didn't. I didn't know there was anything out there. I was in 
the south, I was— I just had no idea. After I left Atlanta, I went to 
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado, and I lived there. I was working in 
hospitals and stuff like that, and a friend of mine from Florida 
moved out, and I got the biggest crush on her, but I never did 
anything about it. But then she moved back to Florida, so I 
followed her, only I never really followed her all the way. She was 
in Tallahassee and I went to Jacksonville where my family was, 
stayed for a short while.  
 And then I was working in a hospital and some women said they 
were moving to San Francisco. I had no idea about San Francisco, I  
was just that in the dark. I just thought, Oh, wow, I've never seen 
the Pacific Ocean. I think I'll move to San Francisco.  
Raiskin:  What year was this?  
Newman:  This was in 1973, 1973.  
Raiskin:  The Summer of Love you hadn't heard about?  
Newman:  Well, I had heard that, but it was hippies. It wasn't about lesbians 
that I knew of. I didn't even know that. I hardly even knew any 
words.  
 I'll tell you a really funny story. I went to San Francisco, and I 
started working the night shift, and there was this gay orderly that 
worked there. He was so flamboyant, I was shocked. Some intern 
would walk by, and he'd go, "Oh, isn't he the cutest?" And I would 
go, "Wow."  
 Finally I worked up the nerve one night to tell him that I thought I 
was, and I have no idea what word I  used. But I thought I was, 
blah, blah, blah, so what should I do? And he said, "Well, let's look 
on our calendars and see when we both have a day off together, 
and I'll take you to a lesbian bar." So he did, and I threw up before 
we went because I was so freaked out. I knew in my heart that I 
was okay, but I didn't know if they were okay. They could be really 
weird.  
Raiskin:  The lesbians?   
Newman:  Yeah. So we went to the bar, and everybody looked like me. They 
all had— it was the time. It was the hippie time when you could 
wear blue jeans and flannel shirts and stuff like that, so everybody 
had on blue jeans and flannel shirts.  
Baker:  It was hard to tell the butches from the fems sometimes, a little bit. 
Yeah.  
Newman:  Yeah. Anyway, it was interesting because  there was quite a mix. I 
went to Maud's, which was— 
Long:  Maud's, mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Newman:   —a big, you know, quite a place there. I saw the police come in 
and beat someone up, and then when the police went out— 
because she went out, the owner, paid them off. In the meantime, 
they drug that woman out the back door so that they wouldn't 
arrest her, and I'm sitting there like— I'm getting ready to go to 
work at the hospital. I would always stop by there and drink some 
orange juice or something before I went to work so that I could 
meet people.  
 So I'm like, "Oh, great. I'm getting hauled off to jail and that's it."  
Long:  Scary.  
Newman:  Anyway— 
Long:  What hospital did you work at?   
Newman:  I worked at Mount Zion Hospital in San Francisco. I lived across 
the Bay, and I worked at Mount Zion.  
 Finally one— Oh. I'll tell you this, the quickest little story about this 
man. This woman came up and sat next to me at the bar, and she 
started talking to me and asking— I think she might have asked me 
for my phone number, and I gave it to her, but it made me really 
nervous. I didn't know what role things— I didn't know anything. I 
just knew that I didn't want to wash the dishes.  
 I mean, my relationship things were men and women, so I didn't 
know. I walked out with this gay man, we're walking down the 
street, and I said, "You know, this whatever her name asked me for 
my phone number," and I said, "You know, I think she's just like 
me." She had on blue jeans and a flannel shirt and long, straight 
hair. “I think she's just like me.” And he said, "Well, here's what 
you do," he said, "When she calls you, you tell her that you think 
that she's a," and he used a word, and I didn't quite hear it, "and 
that you would like to be friends," but blah, blah, blah.  
 I go home to my seventh grade girlfriend. I'm living with she and 
her husband. Nancy's waiting up for me to hear what happened, 
and I said, "Yeah, he said “You tell her that you think that she is a 
bush, and that you are a bush, too." Nancy fell off the stool onto the 
floor laughing. She said, "Butch, Ginger. That's butch." So, from 
then on, I used butches and flowers.  
Baker:  Bushes and flowers.   
Newman:  Bushes and flowers, I mean. Yeah. Anyway, that was my funny 
story.  
 I went to the bar every day, and I didn't really meet anybody to 
speak of. And then one day I was in the bathroom at the bar, and 
there was a notice for— what was the name of the bookstore in San 
Francisco? The first one. Moon— I can't think of it. I'll think of it 
maybe in a minute.  
 Anyway, there was an advertisement for the bookstore. I went to 
the bookstore, and that's where I really found myself. I would get 
all these books, Sappho Was a Right on Woman, and Rubyfruit Jungle. 
That took place in Florida, where it was like I'm home. And then 
they were just starting all the Olivia stuff. They were taking 
donations in the bar and stuff to start Olivia, so I did that. And then 
they would have women musicians, and then I fell in love with a 
woman, and she introduced me to lesbian music, and my whole 
world changed.  
Raiskin:  Let's go back to Janice. Can you take us through your high school, 
and maybe when you felt maybe you were a lesbian?  
Baker:  I don't know. I just had no words, or no context. Even though it 
was southern California and you'd think it was more liberal, the 
community we lived in was very conservative. My experience is 
like Ginger's, there were two women who lived across the street 
that would sit on their front porch and drink beer, and my father 
would talk about them in really derogatory terms.   
 I think my exposure was basically my dad talking about people in 
really derogatory terms. For some reason, I did understand what he 
was talking about, but no way you would want to mention that. All 
through high school I never had a boyfriend, I didn't really like 
boys very well, but I was a Girl Scout.  
 My troop had twenty girls in it, and we went all the way through 
high school together. We were very close, and we're still very close. 
We're still connected fifty years later, forty  years later. To my 
knowledge, I'm the only lesbian in the Scout troop, which is really 
weird because, you know, it should at least be two of us.  
 But my first awareness of my own lesbianism was when I was 
nineteen  and I worked at a Girl Scout camp in the summer, and I 
fell madly in love with another camp counselor who worked there. 
She, and it was probably her girlfriend, but I didn't know at the 
time, but same thing, I never would have used that word lesbian. I 
didn't have any words.  
 I had all these friends there, they'd go off in the Jeep at night and 
drink beer and do all this stuff, and I'd say to my friend Shelly, who 
I still know now, I'd go, "Why didn't you all tell me what you were 
doing? Why didn't you include me?" She goes, "We didn't know 
what we were doing." Everything was so covert. It wasn't 
aboveboard at all.  
 But anyway, Kip invited me to live with her and her friend Ruth, 
who I'm sure they were together, in San Diego. I was going to do it.  
I was so excited I was going to get out of the house and go live with 
them, and they drove me back to camp. And my father, I don't 
know how he finagled this, but he took them out to coffee, and 
when we got back to camp, my father said— they said to me, "You 
can't come live with us," and they wouldn't tell me  what happened. 
They never told me what happened. They wouldn't tell me what 
happened, my father wouldn't tell me what happened. It was just 
that the whole thing was off.  
 But I know what happened. I know he threatened them. My father 
was not a very great man in some ways. We had a high school 
teacher, who of course is a lesbian, a PE teacher, he threatened her 
at her job when I was in high school. He tried to get the high school 
to fire her. She was like twenty-three  years old. She might have not 
even known who she was. But I think my father always knew I was 
a lesbian, and so was taking all these preventative actions.  
 But anyway, after that happened with Kip, that was— I tell 
everybody, I go, "I've never had heartbreak like that in my life 
ever." It still makes me cry, but I didn't know. I thought it was my 
fault. I thought I had done something, and I thought I had done 
something to ruin this relationship or something.  
 Anyway, a couple years later, I got married to a man. I was just 
dead inside because I  thought this is my debt to society. I have to 
pay my debt to my parents and society, and I could probably do 
this for four years, and then I'll get divorced. That was my thinking 
in my head. Anyway, it actually did last that long.   
Raiskin:  Why did you marry him?  
Baker:  What?  
Raiskin:  Why did you choose the man you married?  
Baker:  Because he was the only one that asked me, and he was a real jerk. 
Yeah, and there was— I couldn't see anything else. I couldn't find 
anything else, or see anything else, and I didn't until myself and my 
ex-husband moved to Long Beach, California. I went— started 
going to nursing school, and that's when the world opened up, is 
the women's— well, the women's movement was going on. The 
women's movement started, and the women's movement saved me.  
 And then when I split up with him, I went back to Long Beach State 
to get my bachelor's degree, and walked in the door of women's 
studies, and that was it. The whole world made sense immediately, 
probably within ten seconds. That's how long it took probably, ten 
seconds. Oh, click, click, click, click, click, click, click, click. Just all 
the pieces of your life fall together and everything makes sense.  
Raiskin:  And what did that feel like when that happened?  
Baker:  It felt really good, except that I had pretty long hair and I thought 
that— I didn't know if I was allowed to be a dyke until I cut my 
hair. I thought maybe there were rules and regulations to this, and I 
wasn't going to fit into the norm.  
Newman:  There sort of were in those days.  
Baker:  Yeah.  I just had a really— I just always had a good visit with my 
old girlfriend from that era. My friend Shelly  Jo who I did go to 
Girl Scout camp with, and was in all that part of my life, she was 
in— she said, "You think what?" I said, "Well, do I have to cut my 
hair to join the club?"  She was like, "You're crazy." So anyway, it 
was kind of funny.  
Long:  What was your relationship with your family after you came out?  
Baker:  Well, probably for a year or so I didn't say anything. Then my 
mother started in on me about she wanted me to go— she was man 
hunting for me. Finally, I said, "This is ridiculous," so I sat them 
both down and told them I was gay. They were just furious and 
upset, and my mother called me every single day and said I was 
killing my father. My father called me every single day and said I 
was killing my mother.  
 I really had enough sense by that time in my life, I was in my late 
twenties, to know that I hadn't killed anybody, and that they were 
going to be just physically fine. Maybe their emotions were a little 
overwrought. And my father was on a campaign to shame me into 
doing something  else, and all the sudden he started sending me— 
oh, he would send me horrible things in the mail. He would do 
awful things, and articles, and just nasty stuff. My father was so 
nasty.  
 Kind of in the middle of all this, the Long Beach, California was 
having their first gay pride parade. It was a big deal, and we were  
all a part of that. I called my father up and I said, "Look, if you 
don't stop  this, I'm carrying a sign in this parade that says, 
‘Howard A. Baker Insurance Agency loves gay people,’ and your 
phone number, and you will have every single gay person in L.A. 
County on your doorstep for their insurance needs," and he 
stopped. That was it, he stopped.  
Raiskin:  Even though it would have been good business?  
Baker:  Yeah. Oh, he didn't want that kind of business, but it was a really 
good way to make him be quiet. Anyway, that's my whole story 
about that.  
Raiskin:  So you were in Long Beach— 
Baker:  I was in Long Beach.  
Raiskin:   —for how long?  
Baker:  I was in Long Beach until 1984, and I started— we used to go to Los 
Angeles sometimes, and go to the women's bookstore in Los 
Angeles  [Sisterhood Bookstore], even though we had a really nice 
bookstore in Long Beach too. But we— Aggie, Shelly, and I went to 
the Women's Photography Ovular, and the first year they had it I 
didn't think I was good enough to go. By then that was what my 
art, was— 
Raiskin:  Where was that?  
Baker:  It was at Rootworks in southern Oregon.   
Long:  Did you find out about it at the bookstore?  
Baker:  We found out— I found out about it, yes, at the bookstore by 
looking at their first publication. Their first Ovular publication, it 
was kind of like a semi-hardbound book with all these photographs 
that women  had done. And then we discovered Rootworks, and 
WomanSpirit  magazine, and it was in that.  
Long:  Was is it Blatant Image? 
Baker:  Blatant Image, yeah. It was the Blatant Image. Good job, good 
memory there, Linda.  
 Anyway, I actually at that point, ordered every single back issue of 
WomanSpirit  magazine there was. I had a huge container. I think I 
gave it to y'all somewhere. I think you guys have it. Anyway, I 
think it was the second year, Aggie and Shelly  and I went to 
southern Oregon, and I'd never really been any place so beautiful. 
That was a huge life changer going to that. I mean, I could do a 
whole tape on the Ovulars. I hope you probably have all that 
information.  
 I went for two years. I went that year and the next year, and— 
Raiskin:  What did you do at Ovular?  
Baker:  I was an artist, I photographed. After that, all my photography was 
focused on the women's movement at Long Beach State. I did 
photojournalism for four years. Everything photographed, all the 
speakers that came, all that kind of stuff. I just sent that big box of  
photographs, I hope you guys aren't going to clobber them, but I 
sent them to June Mazer  because I felt like they belonged to Los 
Angeles because a lot of them were about the women's building in 
Los Angeles and that kind of thing.  
 Then when I was— a couple years before I was ready to move to 
WomanShare, I woke up, I couldn't take another photograph. I 
really literally woke up one morning this way. It was like I was 
paralyzed. I think what I had been doing was photographing my 
family, and all the issues that were related to them. It was too 
painful, and I couldn't digest what I was seeing in my own 
photographs. So, years down the line, now I'm a painter.  
Long:  Can you tell us what the Ovulars workshops were like?  
Baker:  Oh, my  God, they were— 
Long:  And about the  people there?  
Baker:  Yeah. It was Ruth and Jean with a list of regulations for us. They 
were twenty  years older than we were, and they were always 
trying— they were, I think, really worried we were going to go 
down the hill to the convenience store and misbehave. Whatever 
that was, we were going to drink beer in the parking lot, I don't 
know what they thought we were going to do.  
 It was Ruth Mountaingrove. I love Ruth, and singing in the 
morning in her little thin reedy  voice. We photographed each other, 
and we did all this kind of alternative processing of photographs  
where we would have the developing— use developing fluid 
outside, like drying and getting crystallized in the sun. So 
hopefully we could throw it away in a more ecological manner.  
 But mostly we were looking at each other. It really was— we were 
looking at each other, and I think validating each other's beauty in 
a way that none of us had been validated before. None of us. I have 
some gorgeous naked photographs of Aggie.  
 We cooked together. It was a week— oh, and in the middle we had 
this wonderful thing. It was a show. In the middle of the week 
they'd have an exhibit, and they'd invite all the women from all the 
rural communities to come, and that was the first time that we'd 
ever seen the WomanShare women.  
 Aggie and Shelly  and I— all the sudden, Bridget and Shannon and 
Billie come walking up the driveway. Billie was always very 
stylish, even at any day in the country, Billie was stylish, so was 
Bridget. And they come walking, and I went, "Whoa, why didn't I 
see those women? Where did they come from?" Anyway, that's 
how we got to WomanShare. That's how Aggie and I got to 
WomanShare. So we met them, and I said, "I want to go live where 
they're living."  
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit about Tee Corinne?  
Baker:  Tee was— I didn't know Tee very well, and Tee didn't come to the 
Ovular the two years that I was there. I knew Tee more through 
knowing Bev.   
Long:  Oh, Bev Brown?  
Baker:  Because Bev Brown  lived at WomanShare, and Bev was my good 
friend. A lot of people found Bev very difficult and hard to get 
along with, and I just adored her. I thought she was a genius, and I 
also could not believe her facility with plants and growing things. 
She could make a garden grow out of nothing, and she was 
unbelievable.  
 So anyway, I loved Bev. I loved that curly hair. I loved talking to 
her. We were— I would consider us good friends. And then when 
she got together with Tee, we knew her more. We used to go to the 
book thing— what did they call it?  
Long:  The Southern— 
Baker:  Southern Oregon— 
Long:  Women's Writers— 
Newman:  Writer's Group.  
Baker:  Writing Group.  
Long:  —and Gourmet Eating Society.  
Baker:  Society, yeah. But we didn't go all the time, but we would go 
enough. I remember watching Tee draw and be really amazed. Tee 
was always really nice to me, and she could never remember 
Aggie's name. It was really a funny thing. She'd call her every A  
name in the universe, and she could never remember Aggie's name. 
She always knew my name. I'm louder, Ag's a little on the shy side.  
 But yeah, I remember Tee's house. I can shut my eyes and be there.  
Long:  And Bev  had an incredible garden there.  
Baker:  Yes. Bev had an amazing garden, and Bev had an amazing garden 
at WomanShare, too. Anyway— I know, it makes me sad to think 
of Bevy. I really did love her. So, I wasn't really close to Tee, but I 
felt like I was close to Bev, yeah.  
Raiskin:  How did you decide to move there?  
Baker:  To WomanShare?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], from Long Beach.  
Baker:  Well, this is where— I'm such a strange person. I was with my 
girlfriend and we were in Long Beach, and we were standing in a 
parking lot watching the Fourth  of July fireworks fall into the 
ocean. I was just overcome with despair, and I said, "That's it, I'm 
moving. I'm going up to— I'm moving to WomanShare." That's 
how fast I decided. It was as if I just woke up and said, "I know 
where I'm going," and that's where I went. I couldn't stand that 
congestion anymore. I think it was also that  I really needed to get 
out of the city.  
Raiskin:  Did you convince Aggie to go with you?   
Baker:  I wanted her to go with me, but she was madly in love with Paula, 
who she'd been in love with about three times, and Paula was 
always doing poopy things to her.  Aggie said, "No, I'm going to 
stay here with Paula and stick it out." And a few months later I call 
her or whatever, and she said, "Well, Paula broke up with me 
again. I'll see you. I'll be there in January." And Ag came in January.  
 And that was the best. Aggie and I have never been girlfriends, I 
have to tell everybody this, but she's been in my life since I came 
out. I met Aggie in the context of Califia Community in California, 
and that's how long she's been a part of my life, her and Shelly. 
 Okay, now you have to talk to Ginger.  
Raiskin:  So where did we leave you off, Ginger?  
Newman:  You left me in San Francisco.  
Raiskin:  San Francisco, okay.  
Newman:  I was being a nurse and I had come out, and I was having a 
wonderful time. I just couldn't believe that life could be so good. 
My girlfriend broke up with me because it was the non-monogamy 
time. I believed in it because the pitch was great, I mean, of course 
we could love more than one— of course we were “better than,” 
and we knew more.  
 I was all great with it, and so then my girlfriend started dating 
somebody and she would ask me questions about it, and I'd say, 
"Yeah, go for it." And then she, you know. It was really serial  
monogamy as opposed to non-monogamy. Anyway, so she moved 
to the next person.  
 Anyway, I met Lina, and she— because I was— Lina lived with my 
old girlfriend in Sonoma. I was up there in Sonoma, I had met those 
women. I was up there in Sonoma and Lina was there, and she had 
just been up to WomanShare, and met and fallen in love with Sally. 
She was moving to WomanShare, and Sally was a schoolteacher, 
and had just quit her job and moved to southern Oregon to build 
houses and live on lesbian land. I was like, "Yes!" 
 I went to work the next day and I quit my job, and I moved to 
southern Oregon. I didn't really have a place to live, but my brother 
had also moved there. I'm very close to my brother, even though it 
was totally the time of separatist stuff. I love my brother, I've 
always loved my brother, we're really close.  So he and his family 
had moved into the country in southern Oregon, not too far from 
WomanShare.  
 I came up to WomanShare and I sort of camped out there for as 
long as I could without being thrown out. They were full. I really 
wanted to live there, but no. I would be there for a while, then I'd 
go visit my brother, then I'd go do this, and then I'd go pick apples. 
I did all this stuff, and then I finally moved to Rootworks before 
Ruth and Jean, just for a month. It was December, no running 
water, no nothing, but I loved it.   
 I would sit there with my little wood stove and chop my wood. I 
mean, all day long I just took care of my daily needs, getting water, 
chopping wood, all that, and I just loved it. And then people that I 
had met and known had  started buying land and were looking for 
people to live on it. And Madrone and Bethroot  had bought their 
land, and they wanted me to come live there.  
 I had met Valerie at the very first Women's Land Trust meeting, 
which was just outside of Eugene up in— somewhere up towards 
the mountains. This woman just was like, boom. She was— I don't 
know how to tell you about Valerie. She's something. Very 
dramatic and very— just puts it out there and whatever.  
 She was from Missouri, and they had just come to Oregon and 
bought— they bought Rainbow's End. So she was moving to 
Rainbow's End, they were all moving. They had to go back to 
Missouri and get some more stuff, and get some more people. They 
were coming out, and so they wanted me to live there.  
 Anyway, in the end I ended up living at Rainbow's End, and then 
Rainbow's Other End because Valerie and I— there was an old man 
who lived next door, and he died. He was in his eighties. He was a 
remarkable old man, he lived in this house next door. The family let 
us rent that place for like $25 a month. So, Valerie and I moved 
there.  
 Anyway, I lived there for four years or so.  
Raiskin:  What year is this?   
Newman:  This was ‘76 to ‘80. 
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Long:  Can I ask you about Rootworks?  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Long:  When you were there, so this is before Jean and Ruth purchased 
that.  
Newman:  Yes. It was owned by some hippie in California.  
Long:  Okay. What buildings were there when you were living there?  
Newman:  Well, there was the main— I don't know what buildings are there 
now.  
Long:  Well, they built the main barn, Natalie Barney, after they purchased 
it. 
Baker:  Yeah, that wasn't there.  
Newman:  Well, this was like— it was a house. It was pretty tall. I slept in a 
loft in the front room where the stove was, and then the other back 
room, the other room, there was a kitchen. And then there was 
some other little cabiny place up the hill a little bit. I lived just in 
the house, whatever it was. I slept in the loft, and I had the little tin 
stove. I don't know what house it was. Do you, Janice?  
Long:  Was that house there when you were there for Ovulars?   
Baker:  Yes. And Ruth and Jean, I think, were actually living in that house.  
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Newman:  It was sort of a main house.  
Baker:  It was before Jean moved into— 
Long:  To Arcata?  
Baker: Yeah. It was a really small little cabin.  
Newman:  But it did have two rooms. A blanket separated them so you could 
just heat the living room.  
Baker:  And you used to make beads in the stove.  
Newman:  I used to make beads in the stove. I would sit there,  and I could 
never— I had to work all the time. One time I was really sick, and I 
just stayed inside and read and stuff. I was like, "Wow, why do you 
have to be sick to do this? What is the deal? Why can't you just take 
time off and read?" But I couldn't. 
Raiskin:  Why couldn't you?  
Newman:  I don't know. I just— I don't know.  
Raiskin:  Was everybody working as hard as you?  
Newman:  Well, nobody else lived there. This was all for me. I wasn't even 
trying to compete with anybody, just myself.  
Baker:  Nobody works as hard as Ginger. Ginger always works really hard.   
Newman:  My girlfriend Valerie, at Rainbow's Other End, she called me Jitter 
instead of Ginger.  
Long:  Now, were you working as a nurse when you were living at 
Rootworks?  
Newman:  No, no. I never worked as a nurse all those times. I quit— 
Long:  How did you— 
Newman:   —nursing. Is this going to be shown to the unemployment office? 
No, when I first moved to Oregon I applied for unemployment. At 
that time, tons of people were on unemployment, and Oregon was 
worried about the people who were living there. They weren't— I 
was collecting from Oregon— I mean, from California when  I lived 
in Oregon. Oregon didn't care. They were busy with all their 
people, so it took them a little while to say, "Wait a minute. Here is 
an RN who can't find a job? I think not."  
 They caught up with me, but for a while I did unemployment. I 
think I made $300 a month or something. So, I did unemployment 
for a while, and then I just did little odd jobs and stuff. It sounded 
so romantic to me to pick apples, so I went off to pick apples and 
made nothing, and poisoned myself.  
 But I made adaptive furniture for handicapped children in 
Roseburg. Valerie worked in the bookstore, and somebody asked if 
I could do that because I was totally into building. I was just 
learning though, I didn't really know anything, but I really have the  
aptitude. I said, "Sure,  why wouldn't I be able to?" I made all these 
things to help kids sit up straight, and trays for wheelchairs, and 
stuff like that. I made money that way. My rent was $25 a month.  
Long:  How long did you live like that?  
Newman:  Well, finally unemployment caught up with me in Roseburg, and I 
took a job at the hospital there. But I didn't work much. I might 
have worked two days a week or something in the neonatal 
intensive care unit, which really wasn't intensive care at all. If it 
was really intensive care, they sent them up to Eugene. So, it was 
little babies.  
 I did that on the night shift for a while, and then I moved to Eugene 
and I— oh, I went to Eugene to go out to LCC and take the 
cabinetmaking course because I really loved that stuff. I went 
through the entire cabinetmaking course, and took a few other— 
whoops. I took a few other, you know, surveying and computer-
aided design  and drafting, all that kind of stuff.  
Long:  What year was that when you moved to Eugene?  
Newman:  Nineteen eighty. Then we graduated and we started a little cabinet 
shop called  Woodworking Women. It was me, LaRosa, Clary, Sage, 
and Deborah. We had a little  cabinet shop and we would get little 
jobs. I mean, I would not have money. I would be like, "Oh, God, 
I've only got $25 left in the bank," and then miraculously I'd get 
another job. It was sort of really hand-to-mouth.   
 Anyway, I went to Mother Kali’s  when it was on Blair, and the little 
dyke ghetto was over there on Fourth. I just made lots of friends, 
and I volunteered at Starflower. I would just go and unload juice 
trucks, cases of juice. I  was really strong. I would do that, and 
everybody love it because here's this— I'm packing off juice cases, 
and stuff like that. I loved that because it was so wonderful being 
around all those women. I did that for a while, and I don't know, 
did my cabinet shop.  
Raiskin:  What year was that then?  
Newman:  It started in 1980.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Newman:  I did all that stuff from ‘80— I don't know. I lived around Eugene, I 
lived with people, I lived with the tree planters when I first moved 
there, out River Road.  
Long:  And who was that?  
Newman:  Who were the tree planters?  Gosh, I can't even remember. They 
were a lot younger than I was because by that time, I was— by 1980 
I was thirty-four, and these were all women in their twenties and 
stuff like that. I can't even remember who they were, but there was 
a whole house full of them, but they were never there because they 
were always off tree planting.  
 They liked me because I just would go to sleep. When they came 
back to town, they were rabble-rousing. They were drinking and  
raising all kinds of hell, and I would just sleep right through it. 
They thought I was a great roommate. I was there all the time, and I 
never was distressed about what was going on.  
Long:  Whereabouts in town did you live?  
Newman:  That was out River Road.  
Long:  River Road.  
Newman:  And then I moved in with— come on, think of it. Deliah and Nellie, 
and Deliah's girlfriend out— was out the Lorane Highway. I lived 
there for a while, and then I moved back into town. I lived at 
Trudy's Ranch for a number of years— time, too.  
Long:  Can you explain what that was? 
Newman:  Yeah. It was owned by Trudy, she was an older butchy dyke who 
had driven a school bus to pay for this 200 acre plot out there. 
There were a bunch of little cabins and her house, and she rented 
her little cabins out. I don't remember how much I  paid, but it 
wasn't much. And Raelyn  and I and Susan Onaclea rented some 
cabins out there, and I worked on Mountain Spirit's house that she 
had out there.  
 You know Mountain Spirit who is now— 
Baker:  She's a Linda, isn't she?  
Newman:  Linda.   
Baker:  Yeah.  
Newman:  Linda Stork. She was Mountain Spirit at the time, and she had 
bought some property out there, and I was remodeling her house 
and living out there on Hamm Road, and that was fun.  
Raiskin:  How many women lived out there?  
Newman:  On Hamm Road? Trudy and her girlfriend, and there were three 
others of us. I think that's all because there were just three little 
cabins out there, and we each had a little cabin.  
Long:  What was Trudy like?  
Newman:  Oh, Trudy, she was tough. I don't know how old she was, but she 
was really old to me. Now that I'm old, I don't know how old she 
was. She got thrown from her horse one time, and she was right 
back on the horse the next day. She had no empathy or anything for 
anybody who thought they were sick or hurt. She's just like, "You 
just plow on."  
 In the meantime, I hurt my back. I was working in a nursing home 
one day a week to earn a little bit of money to make sure I had an 
income. I was walking someone and they fell, and I caught them 
and hurt my back.  I was  laid up for a while out there. And then I 
moved into town.  
Raiskin:  A lot of lesbians landed at Trudy's Ranch on their way here, kind of 
found a place to live and found a way into Eugene.   
Newman:  Well, I was doing a little country for a while, and then I moved into 
Eugene, and then I started doing a little country again for a while. 
But then back to Eugene and— 
Long:  Do you know what happened to Trudy?  
Newman:  She died. What did she die from? I think she— actually, I think she 
had Alzheimer's. I ran into her old girlfriend some years later who 
was— I mean, Trudy was an alcoholic. She was kind of a mess in a 
lot of ways. I didn't really have what I'd call a friendship with her. 
She was just— I just rented a house from her. I think Sally Sheklow 
had a friendship with her.  She didn't live out there at that time.  
Raiskin:  Were you friends with Lina all this time?  
Newman:  Yeah. I've known Lina since 1970-whatever, in California, and she's 
from Florida too, which is where I'm from. We've made— she and 
Rakar and I made a cross-country trip from Oregon to Florida in a 
car in 1980, in fact— or whenever Three Mile Island was going 
down. We were driving east and saying, "Maybe we should turn 
around. We'll check the news later today."  
 But yeah, I've known Lina a long time. Going to have dinner with 
her tonight— no, lunch with her tomorrow.  
Baker:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  How did you two meet?  
Baker:  Well, we share an old girlfriend.   
Newman:  I'd had the girlfriend ten years before she did though. It wasn't an 
instant thing.  
Baker:  Yeah, and LaRosa's my girlfriend, but it wasn't meant to be. We 
both knew it. I'd heard all these stories about Ginger, mostly kind 
of not very positive stories.  
Newman:  That's because we broke up and— 
Baker:  Yeah, but anyway, the first time I met Ginger was her friend— she 
was in Portland. Her friend Claribel, an elderly woman she took 
care of from the VA— 
Newman:  Ninety-four. 
Baker:  —World War I vet— 
Newman:  I loved her.  
Baker:  —was dying, and I was with LaRosa and we just stopped by.  
Newman:  Stopped by because LaRosa knew her.  
Baker:  Yeah, because LaRosa knew Claribel  too. But anyway, I saw 
Ginger. I knew I was smitten with the first look. That's all it took. 
And I didn't believe in that kind of thing, but I did then after that.  
 And then we had this other really funny meeting at WomanShare. 
Ginger came by to drop off— she was driving some stuff to 
Ashland for a friend, and she stopped by WomanShare and I was  
still living there. She came driving up the driveway in her little— 
did you have the white truck then?  
Newman:  Red, I think.  
Baker:  Or red. Either way— 
Newman:  I had a Datsun pickup.  
Baker:  —she was so cute. And I was just dressed to the nines, which 
meant all I had on was this very old pair of men's boxer shorts, but 
they were pink. I looked really cute. I knew I looked really cute.  
Newman:  No clothes on.  
Baker:  Yeah. That was the only clothes I had on, I looked really cute, and I 
was very casual and just said, "Hi." Ginger gets flabbergasted, but 
anyway we visited and that was kind of it. And then after that— I 
don't know, was it the same visit when you came for the talent 
show?  
Newman:  No, no. That was a different visit. I came for the— or an 
anniversary of WomanShare and the talent show, and Janice was in 
it. I was just so smitten, but I had known that she was dating 
LaRosa so I would never— I was very like I didn't get involved in 
any kind of things like that. So, I just was not— “too bad,” you 
know?  
 But then I heard while I was there that she and LaRosa had broken 
up, so I was like, "Okay, I'm going to ask  her for a date." But then  
Nellie was sitting next to me, and she said, "Isn't she cute? She and 
I are dating now." I'm like, "Aw, crap."  
Baker:  It's true. Nellie and I went out together just for a summer. But 
anyway. I don't know if on the WomanShare tapes they talk 
about— those talent shows were so funny. They were called 
Talent/No Talent Shows. So, to have no talent was just as important 
as having talent. They were very entertaining.  
Long:  Describe the talent shows to us.  
Baker:  Well, one of my favorite things I remember in the talent show was 
something Billie did one year. We used to have this notebook at 
WomanShare, and you guys, I think, have seen it and heard of 
these. It was a spiral notebook, and people that lived at 
WomanShare wrote notes in it all day. “Who left the kitchen 
sponge on the floor?” “Who did this?” “Who did that?” “I need 
someone to pick me up at the bus station at 10:00,” or whatever.  
 The whole skit was a reading from the notebook, and it was very, 
very funny. It was very clever, but  that was Billie Miracle. Billie 
Miracle's a very funny person, very clever person.  
Newman:  Janice was singing a song, a Patsy Cline song.  
Baker:  I was actually doing a lesbian striptease.  
Newman:  Oh, I thought you would never say that.   
Baker:  I know I don't. I don't ever admit to it, but I was much younger 
then. A whole lot younger.  
Newman:  And then Janice moved to Eugene and— 
Raiskin:  Why did you move to Eugene?  
Baker:  I needed to leave WomanShare because of employment mostly. I 
couldn't work as a nurse except for at the hospital in Grants Pass, 
and it was med/surg, and I hate that kind of nursing. I'm not very 
good at it.  
Long:  What is that?  
Baker:  A medical surgical nursing.  
Long:  Oh. 
Baker:  And I'm not very good at that. I've always been a mental health 
nurse. There was no mental health to be found because it's a small 
town.  
Newman:  In more ways than one  [laughs]. 
Baker:  Yeah, in more ways than one. It's a small town and whatever, and 
after three years I needed to be employed. What I said all along is if 
WomanShare existed right outside of Eugene, I never would have 
left. I just would have continued to live at WomanShare because I 
was really happy there, but it didn't.   
 So, I moved to Eugene, and got a job at Sacred Heart. I couldn't find 
anywhere to live, there was no housing. I moved in with Sally 
Sheklow, and that wonderful Sally put me up. She had this dog at 
the time named Golda My Dear. Do you remember Golda? It was a 
really funny dog, and Golda was always getting out. She was like 
100 years old, and she'd get out and be found like five miles outside 
of town or something.  
 And Golda— Sally always called me “Golda's lump” because I 
would lay down on my little pallet on the floor, and Golda would 
just climb right on top of me and go to sleep. I'd wake up in the 
morning, and have this dog's— elderly dog just sound asleep on 
top of me. I don't think the dog had any awareness that I was a 
human underneath all that. But it was really nice of Sally to give me 
a place to stay.  
Newman:  And then I invited her  to a women's basketball game.  
Baker:  Yeah. She came to the door— 
Newman:  I changed clothes four times.  
Baker:  She looked so cute, and she came to the door and she only talked to 
Sally, and she didn't talk to me. I went, "Oh, she likes me." But we 
still both had girlfriends, you know.  
Newman:  It was just I had an extra ticket to the basketball game. My 
girlfriend couldn't go.   
Baker:  After the basketball game— through the whole basketball game, I 
kept finding myself smashed up against her. It was just weird. But 
afterwards we went out to tea, and we sat down, and I just looked 
her right in the eye and said, "Do you know I'm so— I just have to 
tell you I'm so attracted to you, but we can't do anything about 
this," and blah, blah, blah. And Ginger was very cool about it, but 
later she said she was about ready to pass  [out]— 
Newman:  I'd died. Nobody had ever just said something like that to me. But 
we were very like no, we weren't going to do anything. We were 
just going to be friends, and it was fine.  
Baker:  All I have to say is it was a good thing our girlfriends broke up 
with us.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Baker:  Because we could not have maintained that very long.  
Newman:  I don't know how long we could have maintained.  
Baker:  Yeah, maybe another week or something. It was like we were not 
going to be virtuous for very long.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Baker:  So, yeah, that's how it started.  
Newman:  And then LaRosa— I don't know if we should say. Anyway, she 
said that Janice couldn't be friends with me  because she probably 
knew. She said, "You can't be friends with her," and Janice said  
“Okay,”  and it broke my heart that she wouldn't be friends with 
me.  
 Anyway, Janice gave her a month. She said, "Okay, I'll do that for a 
month, but after that whatever." So anyway, we got together.  
Raiskin: What did you like about each other? What was the draw?  
Newman:  Well, the strip dance was kind of fun. But no, I just liked her. She 
was really, really nice and she's funny. I love that she's funny.  
Baker:  Yeah, Ginger's funny, too. I think humor.  
Newman: We entertain each other.  
Baker:  Don't you think humor is a big thing for us?  
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Baker:  Yeah, because where we live now, okay, we're going to get some 
more dogs. Our old dogs died, but all they have on the website is 
Chihuahuas. Okay, we'll have Chihuahuas. Some people are more 
picky about things.  
Newman:  We do really well together except we don't make good roommates.  
Raiskin:  With each other?  
Newman:  With each other.  
Baker:  With each other.   
Newman:  We live in two houses next  door to each other, which is always 
what we wanted to do, and it's perfect.  
Baker:  It's like we live in a duplex now.  
Newman:  Yeah. We share everything, but we live separately.  
Baker:  Yeah, we share everything. We're married and we share money, 
and we share every other part.  
Newman:  Don't touch my stuff.  
Baker:  But yeah, it is— we always wanted to live that way, and people 
were always telling us, "Oh, no, you can't do that. You'll break up. 
That's not going to work."  
Newman:  No, we'll break up if we keep doing this.  
Baker:  We don't live together, except we do.  
Newman:  Yeah. I just figured that if it's something you can't do well together, 
why should you do it? If everything else is so great, and you have 
fun together, and you travel together, and you like similar things, 
and you're politically alike, and all that kind of stuff, then why do 
something that just causes strife? So we don't.  
Baker:  Yeah. I think our history of growing up as lesbians in the— both 
the women's movement, but both the southern Oregon community 
as kind of a— as having participated in that. That's something that 
draws us together. We understand some part of our past, and I 
think that that's really important. You have things in common with  
people that you've done things, like the  Califia women. We just had 
some friends visit us that were a part of Califia community, and 
you have a certain connection with them.  
Newman:  We picketed together, and— 
Long:  I think you described the Califia women. Can you describe that?  
Baker:  Califia community was started in Southern California as a forum to 
discuss class and race and sexual orientation. I don't know how 
much we were talking about gender way back then, but in southern 
California. I got involved because of women's studies, and one of 
my teachers, Betty Brooks, was on the board of Califia Community.  
 One thing they did every year was they would put on two or 
three— they were like sleep away camps. You'd go, the Califia 
women, and you'd go to some camp they had rented. There would 
be 100 or 150 women, and all day long, and every evening there'd 
be a dance. Tee was part of Califia Community.  
 The first Califia Community I went to, Tee showed her labia— her 
women's labia slides, and I think some of the women's labia 
drawings. But I remember those slides so well because— and then 
my friend Betty Brooks lectured about them, about the slides, and 
was talking all about how different all women were. But Tee was a 
special guest at that Califia Community. They had brought her 
down for that purpose. That's a piece that I forgot.  
Long:  Yeah, okay.   
Baker:  Anyway, what the camps were really like was 150 naked women 
around the swimming pool, and having these huge arguments and 
discussions about class and race, and what we weren't doing, and 
what you were doing, and what you were doing wrong, and what 
you were doing right. There was a lot of sexual activity. It was 
wild. It was really wild and really fun, and it was great.  
Long:  And it was in southern California?  
Baker:  It was in southern California, yeah. And the community started— 
its main focus were the women were from San Diego. They kept 
going years after the camps kind of died out, but anyway, that was 
Califia.  
Raiskin:  Can you think about your, you said you spent many years in 
Eugene, activities, or social protests, or maybe something about the 
measures or cultural events that you participated in?  
Baker:  I remember a lot about the measures. They all kind of run together 
in my head, you know, Measure 9, Measure this, Measure that, but 
it seemed like we were always standing on a street corner 
somewhere protesting about some measure.  
 When I worked at Sacred Heart Hospital  [correction: a small 
hospital  in Grants Pass when I lived] at WomanShare— one night 
at WomanShare we had watched Eyes on the Prize, the PBS 
documentary about Martin Luther King and the civil rights 
movement, and the next day I said, "Okay, I've worked here a year.  
If Martin Luther King could do that, I can come out at work." And 
Grants Pass was really homophobic.  
 So I did that, and I made that pledge to myself that in my life that I 
would never be closeted ever. So, when all that measure stuff 
started, and I worked at Sacred Heart, it could be very difficult. 
You hear people in the lunch line trashing gay people, and it was 
nasty.  
 I've told this story a lot, but when I got here— in L.A., I was a 
lesbian, I lived with lesbians. I didn't have a lot of straight people in 
my life. Then I was at WomanShare and I was with lesbians, and I 
didn't have a lot of straight people in my life. And then I got to 
Eugene, and all the sudden I was surrounded by straight people, 
especially at my job.  
 And one woman kept asking me to lunch and whatever, and I kept 
thinking to myself, "Why does this straight woman want to be my 
friend? This is really weird." I don't feel this way anymore, but back 
then I was very non-trusting a lot, I think, of people who I thought 
might hurt me.  
 During the Measure 9 thing, we were in a meeting and I was telling 
someone that I was upset. And Mary Jo said, "Well, what can I do 
to help?" My friend.  
Newman:  This was work.  
Baker:  This was at work. And I said, "Oh, well go join a phone tree or 
something." I was kind of sarcastic and not very nice. A couple 
weeks later she said, "I love my phone tree. I talk to those people all 
the time and la, la, la, la, la," and I went, "Oh, my God, she took me 
seriously." Then she went and leafleted with me at a basketball 
game.  
Newman:  It was— Blazers were playing at the U of O.  
Baker:  University, and so we're standing on the corner. Mary Jo turns 
around at me and says, "Do you think these people think I'm a 
lesbian?" I said, "Yeah, they sure do. This is what you're doing."  
 But anyway, I credit her with changing me, with opening my mind 
to the idea because I never wanted to be a separatist. That's not my 
nature, but of working more in coalition with people. And I think 
that's the roots of what we do now in Tieton because we work in a 
community where we're out, people know who we are, and we 
work in a community where people are undergoing a lot of really 
difficult things right now because of immigration and 
discrimination.  
 So it's about, yeah, you might get hurt, but your life's probably 
going to be a lot better if you open up to the fact that other people 
can help you and support you. But it just seemed like all those 
protests were endless, all those years.  
Newman:  Yeah, I don't know how many measures we had from 1980 to 
whatever, but we had a lot of them.   
Baker:  We had a lot.  
Newman:  Old Lon Mabon and whoever were just busy getting things on the 
ballot.  
Raiskin:  And how did it feel?  
Newman:  Well, it was really, really hard. I wasn't out a lot at work when I 
worked in the doctor's office. I was totally out at the hospital.  
Baker:  Tell them what you did at the doctor's office because this is really 
important, I feel like.  
Newman:  Oh, we did abortions. It was a family practice clinic in which the 
doctors believed that abortion shouldn't be just some place that you 
went and that's what you got. They thought it should just be part of 
everyday medicine, that there's some young woman sitting in the 
waiting room, she might be there for the flu, you have no idea.  
Raiskin:  Was this Sarah Hendrickson's practice?  
Newman:  No. Well, it was in the same group as Sarah Hendrickson, and then 
towards the end I think Sarah Hendrickson came out to our clinic 
to fill in for some of our docs that did it, but no. That's sort of how I 
met— well, I met her in other ways, but I met her that way even 
more so. Yeah, I did that for a lot of years. I counseled women 
about birth control, and I was just supportive of them. 
Long:  You said you were a nurse?  
Baker:  Yeah.   
Newman:  I had the women's places come and escape women out the back 
door because their boyfriend was in the front who was beating 
them up. They'd come back there and start crying and tell me what 
was happening, and I would be like, "Okay, here's what you can do 
if you want. I'd be happy to help you." So I did that kind of work.  
 But I was never out there. I think Dr. Cary knew because I think I 
told him.  
Baker:  Yeah.  
Newman:  He was really upset about some of the measures.  
Baker:  You came out though.  
Newman:  Well, I didn't come out exactly. I stood on the street corner for 
Measure 9 and stuff thrown at me, but with signs out Highway 99. 
That's not a great place to stand, but that's where I stood. I wrote a 
letter to the editor.  
 That's sort of how I first came out is I wrote this letter to the editor 
about it. About I'm this nurse, and I'm this aunt, and I'm this 
daughter, and I'm all these things, and I pay all these taxes and 
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and— anyway, I wrote this whole letter, 
and I think people were afraid for me. One woman in the clinic 
said, "Oh, I really worry about you doing that."  
 I went to the dentist, and the dentist said, "You wrote that letter to 
the thing?" I said yes, she said,  "Thank you so much. My brother is  
gay," and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That was really nice because it 
was a dentist office right next to the clinic that I worked in.  
 But I had things thrown at me. And a woman at work accused me 
of— my boss took me outside one day, and she said— so this 
woman, who was nuts, who I actually fired because I was the 
manager, she told them that I was a lesbian, and that I had come on 
to her. I said, "Well, the first part is true. I am a lesbian. I did not 
come on to her." But it was scary. It was very scary. I called an 
attorney to see blah, blah, blah, and she said, "Wait to see what they 
do. Don't be jumping on an attorney yet."  
 They paid her off, which really pissed me off. They didn't hire her 
back. She wanted to be hired back, and she was a danger. She was 
doing all these incredibly terrible things, and people were reporting 
her to me right and left, and I fired her.  
 They said that, "You came into her space," and I said, "Yeah, that's 
probably true. I did." They said, "She said you put your hand on 
her shoulder." I said, "That's possible. I'm that kind of person. It's 
quite possible I came in and said— " But anyway, I said, "Sure, it 
might be possible." And they said, "You were staring at the pictures 
of her family." I said, "I don't think so. I mean, I look direct." It was 
like a closet that their offices were in, and I looked directly at her 
bulletin board. She was that way, but no.  
 Anyway, they had to do a lot of shit. I was really afraid. I was 
afraid of her husband because he was a maniac. I think he was  
abusive to her, and she was a mess. So yeah, I was worried for my 
job at first, and then I wasn't worried for my job because they knew 
me. I'd been there for eight years or something by then. I'm a good 
person. They knew me, but it was hard. I thought, He's going to 
come after me at my house and shoot me,  or something.  That's 
been my life.  
Raiskin:  What about the other things you were involved with? There's 
measures, and there's also— there's so much going on with Sally's 
shows or dances. A picture of sort of what your life was like 
together in Eugene.  
Baker:  I'm trying to think.  
Newman:  We both worked full time.  
Baker:  Well, I worked part, yeah.  
Newman:  But we did— yeah, we went to see the lesbian chorus. For my 
birthday one year, we bought a table at the PFLAG auction thing, 
and invited all my friends, some straight, some not, to the PFLAG 
event. That was nice to give money to them.  
Baker:  I got more and more involved in the arts community.  
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Baker:  The longer I lived here, which was really great.  
Raiskin:  What kind of artist are you?   
Baker:  I am mostly a mixed media painter. I can tell you now, I couldn't 
have told you a while ago, or a few years ago, but I'm a narrative  
artist. I'm really interested in identity, and things like situation, 
gender. I'm a figurative artist. That's what I do.  
Raiskin:  So you became involved with artists in this community?  
Baker:  Yes. And then little by little getting to know people. Do you guys 
know Bev Soasey who just died recently?  
Newman:  Oh. 
Baker:  It's such a loss. She was the director of the Jacob's Gallery for many, 
many, many years before it closed. She was so helpful and 
wonderful, and helped me a lot becoming more visible.  
 I think too, I am a lesbian artist, and I want people to know that. It's 
not something that I want for it to be hidden, or hidden about.  
Newman:  You're quite accepted in the art community in the Yakima area, 
which is a very conservative area.  
Raiskin:  Tell us about your move.  
Long:  Well, first of all, even in Eugene you had shows?  
Baker:  I did.  
Long:  Can you tell us about those?  
Baker:  Well, I went— Ginger did a wonderful thing for me. After I woke 
up in the morning, I couldn't take anymore photographs. About  
five years after that— well, I'd been drawing and painting, but I'd 
just been doing it at home. I hadn't really been showing to 
anybody.  
 Ginger said, "I think you  need to go back to school." I was so lucky. 
I went to LCC for a whole year, and Ginger worked and I went to 
LCC. I get up at 8:00 in the morning, ride the bus, go, and I’d work 
all day long until 5:00, and come home. In that year I felt like I got a 
really, really good education, a good foundation's education. I hit 
them at a really good time, they had great teachers in that period.  
Raiskin:  What kind of courses were you taking?  
Baker:  Art. All studio art. I've had a lot of other stuff. I had a degree in 
other stuff, but I just needed skills.  
Newman:  That's what I was going to say. She had the heart and the mind of 
an artist, but she had no skills.  
Long:  But had  the talent.  
Newman:  Yeah. She had everything, she just didn't have the skills of all the 
tools, and all the tricks, and all the everything. So I said, "Go do it. 
You love this."  
Baker:  Anyway, so that was really wonderful. I met this core group of 
people at LCC who were just so loving. Some my own age, some 
younger. I met two young women, who one was nineteen  and 
twenty-three  that I became friends with. We took all the same 
classes for a whole year, and they both live in Seattle. I'm still  
friends with both of them. So artists, it was a lot like the lesbian 
community. There was these wonderful people there to draw upon, 
and that's how I started working here. And then I had, for a couple 
years, I had a studio over the Indian— by Humble Bagel, there are 
Indian— 
Newman:  Restaurants.  
Baker:   —restaurants there, and there was little offices there. The 
Sundance guy owned them, so I had a studio up there. That was 
really fun. That was my first real outside of the studio until now.  
Raiskin:  So why did you move? And what did you— 
Baker:  Why did we move? There was a lot of reasons. Ginger said we need 
to have an adventure at this time in our lives, I remember you 
saying that. We talked about moving because a lot of 
environmental factors in Eugene. We're both terribly allergic to 
grass pollen, so there's that whole thing that happens every year.  
Raiskin:  What thing happens every year?  
Baker:  What?  
Raiskin:  What happens?  
Baker:  You get so allergic and you can't go outside, and you sneeze and 
wheeze.  
Long:  In the spring time?   
Baker:  Yeah.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Baker:  The whole grass pollen event, and the rain bothers me. It does.  The 
darkness, the climate. That was kind of what we were thinking 
about. We started in Bend, and we just kind of went up the central 
valley of Washington and Oregon, like on the other side of the 
Cascades.  
Newman:  Looking for sun.  
Baker:  Looking for sunnier climate. A friend of mine went to grad school 
in Ellensburg, which is in Washington.  
Newman:  Thirty-five minutes away or something.  
Baker:  Thirty-five minutes away from us, and she said, "Have you been to 
Tieton? Have you ever heard of Tieton?" And we went no. It's like 
hearing of [inaudible 01:15:34] or something. We made an 
appointment with Ed Marquand who's kind of been the mover and 
shaker there for the last thirteen  years, and he took us on this tour. 
The longer I was there, the more I said, "I really like it here." It was 
beautiful. The area's beautiful, and it's got that  four season climate, 
but for me, the art thing was really great.  
Long:  Tell us exactly where it is.  
Baker:  It's ten miles north of Yakima.  
Long:  Okay.   
Baker:  Yeah, ten miles north of Yakima, right?  
Newman:  Is it?  
Baker:  Yeah, it is. It's ten miles north of Yakima, population 1,200. We also 
went there for six weeks during the winter to see what it was like. 
We wanted to have a lengthy little “Uh-oh, is this— are we being 
crazy or not?” We did it, we moved. It was so hard. We had so 
much shit, and it was so hard to get it all together. But we moved, 
and when we got there we were going to live in the country.  
Newman:  And we still have so much shit.  
Baker:  Yeah. We were going to try to live about a mile outside of the little 
town. We couldn't find any place,  so we bought this little house in 
town. We bought this little house for $45,000, this little 900 square 
foot house. It was falling down, and people go, "Oh, my car cost 
more than that." But it cost about another $45,000  to fix it up.  
Newman:  Or more.  
Baker: Or more. Anyway, we fixed it all up, and then we found out we 
really loved living right in the little town. We walk to the post 
office, we walk to the little panaderia. We have a little Mexican 
market, and we have two nice restaurants.  
Newman:  And galleries opened up there.  
Baker:  There's so much going on.  
Long:  Is the outlying area essentially agricultural?   
Baker:  Yes. 
Newman:  Yeah, orchards.  
Baker:  We're right in the middle of an agricultural area.  
Raiskin:  Is it a conservative place?  
Baker:  It depends on what lens you look through.  
Newman:  Yes. 
Baker:  Yes, overall it's Republican. And there's a lot of people who aren't, 
and who are trying to change things.  
Newman:  And they've all just— when you live in an area where you're 
outnumbered, when somebody new comes in the area that's akin to 
you, you just take them in. People invited us to dinner. I don't 
know if you know Terri and Jane, they both went to the U of O. 
Terri is an old girlfriend of Sheryl's.  
Baker:  Sheryl Bernheine. 
Newman:  But anyway, they  live there, and when we came to town they said, 
"Wow, you've increased the lesbian population by 25  percent." 
Raiskin:  Sheryl's from Yakima, isn't she?  
Baker:  She's from Spokane.  
Newman:  Spokane, which is where Terri's from also.  
Baker:  Yeah. It's funny because those connections just kind of—  
Newman:  Small world. Met them the first night we were there at an art show.  
Baker:  There's a lot more gay men than there are lesbians, so we have a lot 
of gay men.  
Newman:  We have enough lesbians to have a lot of good friends. How many 
really good friends do you have in the world, really? So, we've got 
Terri and Jane, Ruth and Lori. 
Baker:  We have to give you the website so you can look on the website 
and see all the things that are happening there.  
Newman:  You can come visit us.  
Baker:  It really is— 
Long:  Is it a planned community? It just happens that there are a lot of 
artists who are attracted to living there?  
Baker:  Yes. Well, they had four people come to this small community, and 
the first one was Ed. He's from Seattle, he's a graphic designer, and 
he got a flat tire on his bike. It's a big biking area, and he was sitting 
there in this little town with— it has four blocks.  
Newman:  On the square.  
Baker:  On the square, it's got a plaza with four streets that go like this.  
Newman:  And that's it.  
Baker:  With almost all the store fronts were empty, and he got this idea in 
his head—  
Newman:  He's an entrepreneur.  
Baker:  Yeah, but he has all these friends in Seattle who want to make 
smaller businesses, like artisan products. 
Newman:  They're idea people.  
Baker:  Yeah, and there's nowhere in Seattle to go to rent to do that because 
it's so— 
Newman:  You can't afford it.  
Baker:   —expensive, you can't afford it. He bought an apple warehouse.  
Newman:  An old one.  
Baker:  An old one that wasn't being used anymore, and refurbished it.  
Newman:  Two.  
Baker:  Two, yeah. One he's turned into fourteen  condominiums, which all 
his rich Seattle friends bought, and then the other one is the Mighty 
Tieton Warehouse. It has right now, I think, seven or eight artisan 
businesses in it. It has a mosaic studio, letter press studio, print 
making studio. It has the— 
Newman:  Whatever pants.  
Baker:   —Graypants Studio, which they make light shades out of 
corrugated cardboard. It's all these kind of Seattle energy, but 
they've sort of done the opposite of gentrification because they've  
come in, they've started these business, and then they hire local 
people.  
Newman:  Train them with new skills.  
Baker:  Train them with new skills, and that's kind of cool. And  then the 
big thing that happened was they got an NEA grant to start this 
mosaic project to do community-supported artist studio. They've 
trained all these local people to do glass art mosaic in the New York 
subway style.  
 Tieton is becoming kind of mosaic focused. It's a really interesting 
model, and it's really working in terms of saving this little town 
that wouldn't have been saved.  
Raiskin:  Do you think it's a good place for you to grow older?  
Baker:  Absolutely.  
Newman:  I have a few little questions about that, but yeah, I think it could be.  
Baker:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What are your questions?  
Newman:  Well, it's a little harder for me in Tieton. I'm not an artist. I love it, 
and I'm having a grand time. I raise my chickens, I do a little of this 
and that.  
Baker:  Ten chickens.  
Newman:  I was taking care of my mother for two years, so that was—  
Long:  So she moved there too?  
Newman:  I moved her there, built an addition on the house, and she lived 
there for about nine months. Then it just got where I could not take 
care of her. She was falling all the time and everything, so she 
moved into a nursing home near there. I spent every other day 
going to visit her, and spending time with her. She's been a big 
focus of my life the whole time I've been there, or almost all the 
time I've been there, and now she died. So, we'll see what happens 
to me in Tieton, but I do like it.  
 I love my friends there. I used to volunteer at the lesbian goat farm. 
They make cheese. They're the number one cheese in Washington. 
They get voted, they're just an incredible— she went to culinary 
school, and then she didn't really like it that much, and then she 
went to France and Italy and everything, and learned to make 
cheese. Now she's a cheese maker, and the other one is a farmer. 
They have like 200 animals, we're not talking too little.  
 But anyway, I volunteered there. That was really fun, but then 
when my mom came I had to stop that. But I might start doing that 
again. I don't know.  
Baker:  Yeah. Every— in February when  all the baby sheep— we'll usually 
have one or two of them in our living room.  
Newman:  Or in the kitchen.  
Baker:  They're like puppies.   
Newman:  In a pen with straw.  
Baker:  They're like a day old because the mamas will have three babies, 
and they only have two teets. Isn't that interesting?  
Raiskin:  Yes. 
Baker:  They have an extra baby.  
Newman:  We sometimes have to feed a baby for a few days until they get 
used to a bottle.  
Baker:  It's such a hardship  [rolls eyes]. They're so cute. I love the baby.  
Newman:  So, we have this little community, and there's so few of us that 
everybody asks any lesbian in town, "Are you the goat girls?" No, 
we don't even look like them.  
Raiskin:  And have you had a lot of friends from Eugene visit you there?  
Baker:  Yeah, we've had— I think most of our friends have visited us.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Baker:  Except for you two. Road trip.  
Newman:  Yeah, they all visit us. And they all think we're crazy to go to this 
town of 1,200, and then they all come and they say, "Wow, I really 
see what you see in this place." It makes them feel better that we 
haven't gone off the deep end.  
Raiskin:  It makes you feel better too, I'm sure.   
Baker:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  —really interesting too.  
Baker:  Yeah.  
Newman:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  You've had such varied lives, you lived in lots of different places. 
Could you see a through-line in your life? Something that was sort 
of the same carrying you all the way through.  
Baker:  That's an interesting question.  I don't know if it's a through-line, 
but I just think my through line is  the people who have been in my 
life. 
Newman:  Yeah.  
Baker:  It's the people who it seems like when you're traveling along and 
you don't know where you're going, someone will speak a truth 
that you respond to.  
Newman:  Lesbians are sort of a through-line for me. 
Baker:  Yeah.  
Newman:  From when I was— well, the first crush I had, I remember I was 
about six years old. I wanted to kiss the little girl next door, but 
from the seventh grade on I've followed the lesbians, I think.  
Baker:  Yeah.   
Newman:  The lesbian trail to the West Coast.  
Raiskin:  But this part is new for you? Because it's not a lesbian community.  
Newman:  No, it is new for me, but I've met a number of really nice lesbians. 
We've got some of the loft people who really live in Seattle, but 
come up there.  Ed is a gay man, and he built the lofts, so there's a 
lot of— there's some lesbians, two different sets of couples of 
lesbians who own the condominiums.  
Raiskin:  Did you know Kate Thompson?  
Newman:  Kate?  
Raiskin:  When you were here?  
Long:  Jackrabbit Press. 
Raiskin:  Jackrabbit.  
Newman:  No. 
Baker:  No. 
Newman:  I didn't.  
Baker:  That's a really— I like that, is there a line.  
Raiskin:  She lives up in Vashon  Island, that's why I— 
Newman:  Well, I certainly remember the old— there was even Mother Kali’s 
before Blair Street. It was over on Lincoln or somewhere—  
Raiskin:  Lawrence.  
Newman:  Lawrence, yeah. And the restaurant that was there, and all that 
kind of stuff. Yeah, I was really draw to Oregon for two things. I 
was so excited about women building things because  I'd— I didn't 
build anything, but I just knew I would like it. I was really drawn 
for that, and then Eugene because there was just a lot going on 
then. A lot was going on everywhere then. It was really coming 
to— it was a very great, exciting time.  
Baker: Yeah. One thing I think Tieton gives me that I don't think I knew it 
was going to give me is that it gives me this experience of 
understanding pieces of another culture that maybe I thought I 
understood, but I really didn't understand. We have a program in 
the summer, it's called Art in the Park, it's for kids, and it's all— we 
do it as volunteering. We put on eight times, we have these art 
lessons for kids, and one of the young people that was coming to it, 
I ran into her on the street this summer, and  I said, "Jasmine, are 
you not going to come to Art in the Park anymore?" And she 
looked at me and said, "I'm thirteen. I'm taking care of the kids now 
while the parents are working in the orchards."  
 And so there's this— I think I understand something, but I don't 
really. It's like you don't— at least for me, there's so many layers to 
this agricultural life that people where we live lead, that when you 
become twelve  or thirteen, it becomes your job to take care of the 
small children during the day. This is not a paid job, while all their  
moms and dads are out either working in the warehouse or picking 
fruit.  
 I can give several examples of that, where it's almost like somebody 
kind of dumping a bucket of water on your head and saying, "You 
don't know what you think you know." And I think that's a gift of 
living in a place like where we live. We also were amazed when we 
moved there that the kids play outside.  
Newman:  It's like living in a town in the ‘50s. All the kids are on bicycles and 
playing in the park. 
Baker:  And they're running around with soccer balls and whatever. But 
the down side of that is that the parents can't afford to buy them 
electronic devices. I don't know, it's like that  never stop learning 
thing. Really different than just— I don't live at WomanShare. I 
learned a lot there, but now I'm learning a lot where I live now.  
Newman:  I'm going to run for city council.  
Baker:  She is.  
Newman:  It's a city. Tieton is a city, and the city council— 
Baker:  An incorporated city.  
Newman:   —they're really the old school. They do some things that are just 
appalling. We go to all the city council meetings and question. I 
don't think they like that too much, but anyway now I'm going to 
run for city council.   
Baker:  Ginger's going to invade the old guard.  
Newman:  Next election, that's right. I'm going to start some stuff. We'll see, I 
might regret the day I thought of it, but it sounds like a good idea.  
Raiskin:  We imagine that, you know, people are going to be watching this in 
twenty  years, fifty years, whatever, but even before that, there will 
be some young people who are interested in hearing older people's 
stories. Is there anything, any advice you would give, or any 
insight that you would share from your lives to a young queer 
person maybe?  
Newman:  All I can say is follow your dreams.  
Baker:  Yeah. I say find the people that love you, and let them support you 
because you're worth it. Yeah, especially— I know a lot of young 
people have it so hard.  
Newman:  And we certainly don't know what's happening in this present 
political climate.  
Baker:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you think it's harder in some ways now, or easier for kids?  
Baker:  I don't know. That's a really good question. I don't think I know. I 
think, to me, it must really depend on where you live 
geographically a lot, what resources are available to you.  
Newman:  It always has.   
Baker:  I think about myself at Long Beach State. Well, if I were in 
Alabama, and I walked into college or something, there may not 
have been those women's studies resources. I think so much is 
where you are geographically, so move! [laughs]  
Newman:  And I'm trying to keep up with things. I always thought I would be 
cool and with it, and love all the music that came out, and I would 
not be like my mother, and I would— every trend, and I'm finding 
myself having to question myself about things that have changed, 
and just saying, "You know, it's changed. It's different now."  
Raiskin:  What kind of things?  
Newman:  Well, all the— the whole thing about the million different genders, 
and the names to call people, and the— I'm a lesbian, and I've been 
a lesbian all along, and it's just something really new for me to take 
in and be accepting. I understand, and I understand women 
wanting women only things, and I understand the hurt that that 
can cause. I'm one of those Libras anyway. I'm always trying to 
balance things out and make everybody happy. So, it's interesting.  
 And the music, I'll listen to some music, and hate it. I'll say, "What? 
You can't hate it."  
Raiskin:  Janice, I know you're a person  who when you see a young queer 
couple on the street, you'll make it a point to tell them how 
beautiful they are.  
Baker:  I do that.   
Newman:  Always.  
Baker:  I always start to cry.  
Raiskin:  What do you see beautiful about them?  
Baker:  Well, a lot of times what I see is— I don't know. I see the love 
between them, and the courage that it takes to walk down the street 
holding hands, or having your arms around each other, even if 
they're not a romantic couple. The fact that they might look a little 
different than other people, and I always just want to tell them how 
beautiful they are, and tell them how glad I am that I got to see 
them because people don't look at us like that anymore. We've 
become invisible in a very odd way.  
Newman:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Baker:  In a really strange way. Even if we hold hands or something, they 
probably think, oh, we're just propping each other up or 
something.  
Newman:  Two old ladies.  
Baker:  But yeah, I don't know, that beauty of young people. I was just 
delirious when Aggie and I came here and got to speak with your 
classes. They were just so gorgeous and great.  
Raiskin:  But you were that young person who was holding hands on the 
street.  
Baker:  Yes, I was.   
Newman:  Yes. 
Baker:  I was.  
Newman:  I wanted to say one thing that I thought was really sweet about 
when you all had the Tee Corinne thing here at the U of O and we 
came to it.  
Baker:  I was just going to tell them that.  
Newman:  And there were all these young lesbians there, all of these young 
lesbians, and they were seeing all these photographs. I'm starting to 
think of myself as old. I didn't think— I don't think I hardly 
thought of myself as old then, even though it wasn't that many 
years ago.  
 All these young women were sitting behind us, and at the break 
they were talking. I  think they were talking to us, and they said, 
"This was just so wonderful." She said, "It's like meeting the 
Beatles," and I went— it was all I could do to not laugh because 
that was— they were serious. "This is like meeting the Beatles." I 
was like, "Well, whoa."  
Baker:  It was very funny.  
Newman:  I loved it.  
Baker:  Aggie and I are walking along the displays like, "Shit, Ag, look at 
that." We were just laughing and laughing. It was really fun.  
Raiskin:  But to see your lives as historically significant.   
Newman:  Yeah.  
Baker:  Like I said, that was very powerful for me. That was very powerful 
for me when we were interviewed before, and I just didn't think it 
was— and also when we came here and we saw things that were 
from WomanShare in cases like they were precious, that was really 
an amazing experience because I don't think I would have thought 
that way.  
 Or sending all my photographs off to June Mazer and hearing back, 
"Oh, we really wanted these." And I was like, “Wow.” Because if I 
hadn't done that, if I hadn't have been here first and seen what you 
all were doing, they just would have— who knows. They would 
have just rotted in the— nothing would have happened to them. 
And now I'm talking Shelly  into sending hers off because Shelly 
actually did more than I did.  
 But anyway, yeah, it's like— yeah, I never would have known.  
Newman:  Part of history.  
Baker:  Yeah. That we were part of history. But now I know, and now it's 
really— anyway, it's because of the work that you all have done. I 
mean, wow. I really want you to come visit us. I want you to come 
see what's happening. I think you would be really interested in 
what's happening in Tieton. It's a really magic little incubator, for 
whatever reason.   
Raiskin:  I like that you've shared this history with us, but also this future, 
what you're doing in your years now, and that you're contributing 
to a new community. That's great.  
 Did we leave out any piece that we should— 
Long:  Anything else you want to talk about?  
Raiskin:   —make sure we touch on?  
Newman:  I wrote a few notes, so we'll see. But I think I touched on my notes 
and much more.  
Baker:  No, this is— I just can't believe you guys do this. It's so amazing. 
Just what you teach and what you do.  
 I remember the first time I realized that you were doing this, Aggie 
called me up and said, "I just watched Ruth Mountaingrove talk 
about how she wanted to have sex with you." And I went, "What?"  
Long:  Tell us about that.  
Baker:  Oh. 
Long:  What was it like being on Rootworks, the lesbian land, and there 
were so many different kinds of people there, and there's a lot of 
experimentation. What was your experience?  
Baker:  Of— 
Long:  With Ruth and—  
Baker:  Well, I was actually— I loved Ruth because I loved the way Ruth 
sang. She sang in this little high reedy voice, and she sang— I don't 
know if I can imitate it, but I'll try. She'd sing, [Janice sings] 
"Oregon's mornings are the rarest. We came here feeling like a 
stranger. Now that we're here, there is no danger." And I will never 
forget the first time I overheard Ruth sing like that. I think I cried. I 
was very moved.  
 I was sitting in the loft in Natalie Barney, and Ruth was sitting 
there, and she was singing. I don't think she was playing an 
instrument or anything, and I just thought that was the most 
wonderful song. I remembered it all these years. I mean, if you 
could imagine.  
Long:  Did she write that song?  
Baker:  Yes, that was one of her songs.  
Newman:  Yeah, I'm sure she wrote all of her songs.  
Baker:  But Ruth started coming to WomanShare, and she started kind of 
following me around, and she started talking about being cuddle 
buddies. And I said, "Ruth, I can't do that. I don't want to be a 
cuddle buddy." And she said, "Oh, it's not sex. We just go to bed 
and cuddle." And I go, "Ruth, I don't want to do that." So I started 
avoiding her when she'd come over.   
 Anyway, that's all I really remember about it was being cuddle 
buddies. But I know that Ruth did know that I appreciated her 
work because I thought she was pretty amazing.  
 And Jean was always kind of hollering at us for one thing or 
another that we weren't doing right.  
Long:  Like what?  
Newman:  Too much peanut butter on your bread.  
Baker:  Too much peanut butter on your bread, yeah.  
Long:  Because everything was quite frugal?  
Baker:  Yes. 
Newman:  Yes. 
Baker:  Yes, and if you had  a little scrap of something, she'd say, "Pick that 
up. You can use that." It was always about, yeah, conserving things 
on the land, which was really good. That was not a bad thing.  
 I think it was just funny because I think that Jean was sort of 
slightly appalled by some of our more overt sexuality. We were 
topless all the time, and we were hugging on each other, and 
people switch partners a lot.  
 I don't know, they were a little bit older than we were. Maybe they 
were kind of past that a little bit or  something. I don't know.   
Newman:  I forgot to tell about during some of those No on 9 campaign things 
and stuff, we lived in southeast Eugene, and we had our house 
egged. We had people scratch on Janice's car, D-I-K-E. They were 
real smart ,too. And faggot, they wrote faggot on Janice's bus. It's 
like it was really bizarre.  
Baker:  Yeah. It was a part of town where you didn't really— we were kind 
of surprised that happened.  
Newman:  You always think every place is so together, and then there's so 
many people who aren't. Like San Francisco, I've been screamed at 
on the streets in San Francisco.  
Baker:  Me too, yeah.  
Newman:  Anyway, I just forgot to tell that part.  
Baker:  I'm glad it made you laugh, Linda. Did you ever hear Ruth sing?  
Long:  Yes. 
Baker:  Did I do a  good imitation?  
Long:  Yes. 
Baker:  I love that kind of singing.  
Raiskin:  Well, thank you so much for sharing.  
Baker:  You're welcome.  
Newman:  Thank you so much for doing this.   
Baker:  You guys are so wonderful.  
Raiskin:  I'm really glad to hear those.  
Baker:  You are very— 
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  