  
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Gladys Campbell on September 13, 
2018 taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives, and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO  Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Gladys, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project, and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Campbell:  I do.   
 
Long:  Great, thank you. Let's start with the basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born, and something about your 
early years?  
Campbell:  I was born in Torrance, California, which is near Los Angeles. But 
at the age of two, we moved to the San Diego area and I grew up 
there until I was about nineteen. Had one home, parents a stay at 
home mom and a dad who never missed a day at work. He laid 
floors, so he was a manual laborer. When I graduated from high 
school, right about that time, there was a lot of women's events 
happening. They were talking about the women's movement. At 
the junior college I went to, which was Southwestern Junior College 
nearby, there were a lot of women talking about women's rights.  
There was a women's center. They were offering classes. One I took 
was called women in history. There were events like there was a 
women's music festival, the San Diego Women's Music Festival. All 
the headliners are there Holly Near and Meg Christian, Margie 
Adams. Then there was a camp called Califia, and we went and all 
these women, there were workshops. They were talking witches, 
and there were covens and political things. There was a lot going 
on. There was a coffee house called Las Hermanas coffee house in 
San Diego.  
Raiskin: What year was this?  
Campbell:  That would be 1974 to 1977.  
Raiskin: What year were you born?  
 
Campbell:  1955. The women in history class had a guest speaker and she was 
from Eugene, Oregon. She spoke and I was majoring in 
photography. I took pictures of her as she spoke. She saw the 
pictures and liked them and asked for some wallet size. I made  her 
a set of wallet size. Then she said, “Well if you're ever in Eugene, 
look me up or something.” Well, I was young, my friends were 
young, we thought Eugene was like some kind of lesbian Mecca. 
We hitchhiked up there.  
Raiskin: Were you already identified as a lesbian?  
Campbell:  When I went to that Camp Califia I had my first crushes on women, 
like really passionate crushes, and then I knew what it was all 
about. I worked a summer at Sequoia National Park. There was a 
woman there that I just fell head over heels. We made love and it 
was a summer romance and it was great. It was kind of interesting 
because I was like I'm a lesbian and this is my identity. She was, I 
would say like more of a butch dyke. But she  kept talking about, oh 
she was going to get married and have kids and stuff. I'm looking 
at her like, no, you're not. Or if you are, you're going to be pretty 
miserable. I think she was really conflicted. She didn't want to 
identify that way, but that was my first relationship. That would be 
1975, ‘76 I think.  
Raiskin: Why do you think you weren't conflicted?  
Campbell:  Me?  
 
Raiskin: Yeah.  
Campbell:  It just felt right. I was surrounded by all these women that were 
talking about women and women's power. It just felt right and it all 
made sense. Suddenly hanging out with my friends changed. It 
became deeper and more loving. Skipping ahead we did a lot of 
group, you couldn't be in a couple, you had to have multiple lovers. 
It just felt like a big, fun reality. It was wild and crazy.  
Raiskin: This idea about non-monogamy, how did that idea disseminate?  
Campbell:  There were readings on it, women were writing about it. I think 
they were identifying with the patriarchy, being, you know,  a male 
owned a woman. We didn't want to own each other, and we didn't 
want to model ourselves on the patriarchal relationships. We tried 
to do it differently. But I always said after years of that, I always 
said I could only have a part-time job if I had multiple lovers. 
Because it just was so emotionally demanding at least in my 
experience. I know some women were very successful at it, but for 
me there always seemed to be a lot of drama. When I got to 
Eugene, we were walking the streets, my friend and I, and we were 
looking for the women's community here that was supposed to be 
so huge.  
 We were about to give up and we were walking out, I'm sure it was 
Seventh Street. We were walking out Seventh Street going to 
hitchhike back. Someone had spray painted a double woman's sign 
on a phone booth. For us that was just like, it was the sign  we'd  
 
found it. I think now about graffiti and how I don't really like 
graffiti, but how at that point it was salvation. It was the burning 
bush or something, because we were just like, we found it. They 
really are here. Because someone had spray painted a  double 
woman's sign on a phone booth. We turned around and we looked 
harder.  
Raiskin: Seventh Avenue and what?  
Campbell:  It would be probably Seventh and High. Seventh and Pearl, 
Seventh and High. We went back and we did find, we found 
Gertrude's, we found women who were in a meeting. There were 
posters up about different events. We thought we had found 
nirvana. Though we did leave town. Then I came back the next year 
during the summer, and found a poster that talked about the 
women's tree planting crew. There was a meeting in a place and I 
went, and there were a lot of women. I think like thirty  or forty  
women and the room was just packed and out the door, all these 
women wanted to join the tree planting crew. Well, the women that 
were doing the crew already said, “Well we can't take all forty  of 
you on at once, so we're going to have to do you in to two stages.” 
They asked for volunteers who could afford to wait. I had $75 to 
my name, and hitchhiked.  But for some reason I felt that I could 
wait because I had $75. I was on the second group and I went to 
Klamath Falls where my sisters were living. They were doing the 
back-to-land hippie buying land thing. I stayed there and waited 
for a letter. I was living in Klamath Falls, there was about three feet  
 
of snow. It was freezing. I was walking back from my sister's 
house— there's like two miles, and it was early evening— it was 
still light out.  I said, “Well I might take a shortcut to my place.” I 
got lost in the snow and I'm like, just really just didn't know. My 
shortcut didn't end up being a shortcut. I stumbled down on a road 
and it's getting dark. This car comes up. And when you're in the 
country people stop and they check and they said, “Hey, are you 
okay?” I said, "Well, which way to Bill and Kathy's store?" which 
was near where I— We're rural, we're all living out in the 
mountains.  They said, “We're going there.” I said, “Well, okay.” I 
hopped in the car and they gave me a ride. When we got to the 
store, my other sister who lived five miles away just happens to 
pull up as I get out from being lost in the snow. She opens up her 
windows and she goes, “I've got a letter for you.” I'm like, okay. I'm 
still spinning from almost dying or something. I get the letter and it 
was from the Full Moon Rising tree planting. I opened it up and 
they said they really needed me to come and join. It was just very 
magical I thought how that all that, that she happened to come up 
that I happened to get lost for two hours. We happen to get there 
right at the same time.  
 So I packed up my stuff and left most of it at my sister’s and 
hitchhiked over to Eugene. They picked me up at Dunkin Donuts 
that's where all the tree planters gathered. I think it's still over 
there, Dunkin Donuts on Franklin. I went out, and so all the forty  
women that initially were, “I want to do this,” “I want to do this.”   
 
They picked me up and I go out and there's this rag tag bunch of 
women, there's probably ten or twelve. Half of them are sick and 
they're miserable and it's cold and wet. But I had just come from 
Klamath Falls with three feet of snow. So to me, this felt like the 
tropics, it felt warm. I get up there and I'm just singing Holly Near 
songs. They're just like miserable. They lived in yurts, which are a 
lattice structure with beams and then a plastic— well it was a 
canvas top. And then they had an airtight stove in the middle, 
which in those days was adequate except nowadays it would not 
pass fire code. Air tights are dangerous. But they had that. Then 
there was another smaller yurt for everybody to sleep in. But it had 
half collapsed and they were all sleeping in their vehicles and here 
and there. Well, I just thought that half collapsed yurt was 
awesome because it was my own space. I'd wake up and there was 
frost on my sleeping bag. It was so cold. But again, three feet of 
snow, this felt so nice. They took me out to train me on the unit, 
and there were— I had three trainers that day because they kept 
going home sick. They would like train and they'd be like, “You 
know what, I got to walk home.” They'd walk home and let so-and-
so take over. That day I had three trainers because they all went 
home sick.  
Long:  When you say they went home, they went to the camp?  
Campbell:  Yeah, went back to camp. Camp was, we were in Dorena so we're 
about thirty  miles and then another windy fifteen, twenty  minutes 
on a logging road. But I was just so high, here I was living the  
 
dream.  Because you have all these women living out and doing, 
they're so strong and powerful. I kind of didn't, I'm like they're 
sick, but I just kept going. It was a really bad contract. You would 
bid and do a contract and sometimes there's something called a bad 
bid. They were making about five dollars a day, which was really, 
no one wanted to go and do what we did for five dollars a day.  
Raiskin: Can you describe what you're planting and who you're planting it 
for? 
Campbell:  Hoedads had various crews, and the crews had themes and we 
were the women's crew to empower women. It was really smart of 
them to do that. They would bid on contracts for the Forest Service 
or BLM, the Bureau of Land Management. They would get these 
contracts. They would estimate how long, how many people time. 
Then they would put a bid and if they won the bid, then Hoedads 
one of the crews would get assigned it. In this  case, Dorena was 
assigned to several crews because it was a bad contract. When you 
have a bad contract, a bunch of crews show up and get the hell out 
of there. You plant the trees and it's a loss, but at least everybody 
took a loss in two days instead of one crew doing a loss of three 
weeks.  
Long:  What was a bad contract?  
Campbell:  A bad contract well five dollars a day.  
Long:  Okay, so the wage?   
 
Campbell:  Yeah. When you estimated the trees and the time and everything 
and you were getting five dollars a day. I worked for two weeks 
and I made the most money on that crew, and I made like $115 for 
two weeks. Everybody else made like $60 and $30. They were sick 
and morale was terrible. But I thought it was interesting. I was just 
in rose colored glasses. I would  just literally the first day I'm 
singing, and I'm out there planting and having a great time.  
Raiskin: What are you planting? It is a clear cut that's being planted?  
Campbell:  When Weyerhaeuser and those companies, the lumber companies, 
the paper mills would clear cut, they were required by law to have 
trees replanted by a certain time, so many years. We would plant 
whatever—Doug fir, but they were genetically modified. They 
were called super trees they grew fast. But it was also monoculture. 
It was not a good thing. They would come in and clear cut a mix of 
trees, and they would replant with Doug fir. Well that's a 
monoculture and monocultures are more susceptible to disease and 
stuff. It wasn't ideal, but that's what we were doing. Things 
changed over time. They started, you would plant two different 
kinds of trees. You would have a bag strapped on and these trees, 
and then you'd have what's called a Hoedag. That's where Hoedad 
got its name.  And so, you would throw this tool into the soil, pull it 
back, put a tree in, and then tamp down the soil and then move on. 
They would have like six by eight by— they would tell you how 
many feet between trees. You'd have a line, there would be women, 
someone would start and then another woman ten feet below her  
 
and ten feet below her and ten feet. We would go across a unit 
planting trees, and then ideally plant back up because they were 
often steep. Units often had like, oh, they're flat. Then it's hard on 
your back. Oh, it's so steep, but then it's hard on your knees. They 
had a slope 70% slope, 60% slope. If it was a steep one you wanted 
to plant down and then plant back up, get more trees.  
 Then sometimes we got lunch breaks but you barely wanted a 
lunch break because it would be so cold. You would start out cold, 
you'd start planting and you would get so hot, that you would 
want to take off your rain gear, which you couldn't because then 
you'd be wet and hypothermia. But so we had lots of rain gear and 
boots with spikes on them and they were called corks. We 
transported in something called a crummy, a big suburban vehicle. 
There'd be like thirteen  women in the back and three women in the 
front. We'd have twelve  to fifteen  women and go out. At the top of 
the unit there would be trees, and then you'd bag up your trees and 
off you'd go.  
Long:  How many seedlings, were they called seedlings? How many 
would you carry on your body?  
Campbell:  It varied. Tree size was often an issue. If you had small trees you 
could carry hundreds. Then if they were bigger trees, and that 
would be part of the bid, you'd have three year old trees, oh my 
God, you're carrying like sixty  huge trees as opposed to 100 small 
trees. That would be part of it. Sometimes they had, they were  
 
called plugs. Then they had a plastic plug with them. You'd pull it 
out of a plug, put your plug in and plant the tree. Those tended to 
weigh more, so weight was an issue. But we were all in our early 
twenties, and pretty much we just were what we'd call “Gonzos,” 
and got stronger and stronger.  
Long:  How long was the workday?  
Campbell:  It depended on the unit. Ideally, it was probably we'd leave at 7:00 
or 8:00 in the morning. Get there, load up, start planting. Since it 
was generally done in the winter and spring, because you wanted 
wet, so rain gear was, that's just the way it was. It could be too dry. 
You'd get dried out, you'd get winded out if the wind was over 
fifty miles an hour, they'd shut you down. The Forest Service  
would come and inspect what you've done. They might stop you at 
noon or something and say, “It's too dry conditions. You got to 
stop.”  
Long:  Then you go back to the yurt and hang out?  
Campbell:  Yeah.  
Long:  What was that like?  
Campbell:  Awesome. We sang a lot of songs, lot of songs. Songs when we're 
driving, songs in camps. We'd have business meetings, we would 
have feelings meetings. Maybe somebody wanted to teach 
something. Someone might teach guitar, someone might teach an 
herbal tonic. But we did all live together. Some people could go,  
 
like on that Dorena contract, they could go back to Eugene for 
maybe a weekend or something. But once we were out in Eastern 
Oregon, Washington, Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, no one could go 
back. We were always a unit, stayed  together when we went from 
contract to contract to contract.  
Raiskin: I didn't know you went so far.  
Campbell:  I did some California, Northern California, just at the end.  
Raiskin: How did pay work?  
Campbell:  We paid by the shares. That meant not your ability, but if you 
worked so many hours, then those hours were divided into what 
we were paid. Then so everybody got a share. Someone who 
planted 100 trees and someone who planted 300 trees would get 
paid the same hourly. It was the share.  
Raiskin: That day when you were making more money than the others, how 
did that work out?  
Campbell:  Because they all went home sick, they were sick.  
Long:  The person who planted more trees, was it by the hour then? 
Because you would take longer to plant 300 trees compared to 100 
trees.  
Campbell:  No, someone who is fast.  
Long:  I see, so if  you're efficient.   
 
Campbell:  But we were going by, so some woman that's six feet tall, 180 
pounds, muscle-bound would get paid more than someone who's 
four foot nine and maybe couldn't cover  the ground they could. 
Everybody got paid the same in terms of the time they put in.  
Raiskin: Did that sit well with the people who were faster planters?  
Campbell:  I was a fast planner and I didn't have a problem with it. My fast 
planting was more a personal best, and also keeping up with the 
other fast planners.  
Raiskin: Enthusiasm.  
Campbell:  If women didn't have our enthusiasm that was okay with me. I 
think later on there was a riff, and then there was a different crew 
formed. It was good I thought a half share half piecework. A lot of 
crews paid by the tree. When you do that, you can have sloppy 
planting, you can have people who “stash trees” they called it. We 
didn't have that issue, but you might have some Gonzo plant, they 
might bury twenty  trees, get paid. There was issues with by the tree 
also. People had what's called cut you off, leave you on the duff, 
because the trees to be planted in soil. If they had a lot of duff, 
which is its composted bark-- It's real easy to dig in that, but you're 
not supposed to be planting a tree in there. We had sayings like, 
“You left me in the duff.” But if you're planting by the share, you 
didn't worry about that so much. If someone was, it's called 
“gravy.” They're planting in the gravy, all the good soil and leaving 
you in this crap with a bunch of branches. Well you would be  
 
angry because they're going to make more money than you. 
Whereas if you pay by the share, if you got crap and they didn't, 
you both got paid the same.  
Long:  Not to belabor that point, but what is the share?  
Campbell:  That would be hourly. If I worked ten days, I'm going to get paid 
more than someone that got paid one day. I can't remember if it 
was hourly or, but it definitely wasn't by  the tree, which is what 
almost all the crews did. There's pros and cons to both.  
Raiskin: How did Full Moon Rising do in comparison to some of the male 
groups?  
Campbell:  I thought we held our own, pretty much. I think there were maybe 
one or two contracts  that we had to get, maybe one, that we had to 
get bailed out. Where they had to bring in— We weren't keeping 
up with— When you do a bid, has to be done in so many days. I 
don't think we ever ran into problems with that. We actually 
helped other crews. Because if they got a bad contract then they 
called it a “swarm,” and they would put a call out to all the crews. I 
can't remember exactly how many crews, but I'm saying there was 
like fifteen, twenty  different crews. There was a crew for families 
and they had childcare. There was a crew that was communist 
based. I think they did by the share. They were very political and 
they were called Red Star. The family crew, I think was called 
Potluck. The crews had different themes. Sometimes if a crew got in 
a bad contract and they were going to default, and then all these  
 
crews would come in and wipe out that whole contract in one day. 
It was quite fun. That happened like once or twice and you'd see 
everybody, like, Oh my God. We'd all work for a day or two and 
just knock it out and then they wouldn't go into default. I'm 
amazed that I can remember those words, but it's all coming back.  
Long:  How many years did you work as a tree planter?  
Campbell:  I did what's called two seasons, so it was about two and a half 
years.  
Raiskin: What was your relationship as women in that crew with the 
lesbians who were in town?  
Campbell:  We were pretty isolated, but when we'd come to town, I think we'd 
go to, I'm glad you're reminding me the Riv  Room. But we really 
didn't have a home base. A couple of times we would rent a house. 
It would give us a place so there'd be a bunch of women living 
there. But we ended up— That would only occur for a few months 
and we'd get usually evicted or something, because there was just 
too much going on. There was a house on, I just saw it today: 
Eleventh, and Almaden or Almaden, whichever. It had nine 
bedrooms, and we rented that. Everybody had their own bedroom, 
it was so nice. Two women had their trucks with campers on the 
back out in the back, and they were like homemade campers. One 
was Step Van. I remember it was like my first room here in Eugene, 
but we were only there maybe four months max. Then boom, then 
we're gone from probably October to June would be. It was hard to  
 
have a home base. We would come to town for meetings, but that 
would be about it.  
Long:  When you were out doing the tree planting for the extended period 
of time, and then at night you'd go back to the camp. Did you 
always have a camp by running water? How did you get water?  
Campbell:  We had water cans so there might be like four or five lined up. 
Water was a ways you wouldn't drink from a creek because of 
different amoebas and stuff. We would get water in town, shower 
in town. We were really big on Pie and I.  We'd go to town and 
have  pie and ice cream, Pie and I the whole bunch of us. When we 
would come in, we were generally very short hair. I can imagine 
what, I mean they trembled, I'm sure. One time we were driving to 
a contract and we were leaving Eugene, we were going to go 
through Corvallis and this woman was hitchhiking. She was a 
hippie. We stopped and picked her up. She gets in the van. I mean, 
we are really nice people. Really nice and laughing and everything. 
We stopped to get gas, she jumped out of there and ran. That was a 
reality check for me. I was like, I guess we're not so normal or 
something we don't fit in. But here's this counter-culture, hippie 
woman running for her life. We were just like, “Sorry.” I remember 
that. We would go places, but since we were out in the woods, we 
didn't interact with people. We'd find our camp, find our unit. The 
unit was sometimes maybe another ten or fifteen  minute drive from 
camp, because your camp had to be level and room to set up yurts 
and trucks and cars. We would pull in. We were pretty isolated.  
 
We'd get our water, get our food and then not see people till the 
end of the unit, or the contract, which might be a week or two. But 
sometimes if we were going through town, I especially remember 
Missoula, Montana, going to the women's center there and 
connecting. We invited them out, and some women did come out 
to our camp. That was really amazing.  
Long:  Another clarifying question, Full Moon Rising was the women's 
tree planters group, was that part of the Hoedads Cooperative or 
was it a separate?  
Campbell:  No, we were part of Hoedads. Hoedads would have monthly 
meetings. You had a group rep and you had a bidding rep and you 
had a treasurer. I never was a bidder, but I was a group rep where 
you would meet with all the other crews and talk about whatever 
contracts. You would talk about politics, donations maybe. Because 
Hoedads have a lot of money. I talked about the five dollar day 
contract. The next contract we made $200 a day. Forty  years ago, 
that was a lot of money, $200 a day. We would come to town and 
we would have quite a bit of cash.  
Raiskin: Two hundred dollars  a day for the crew or for each person?  
Campbell:  Each day.  
Raiskin: For each person?  
Campbell:  Each person. We went from five dollars per person today to almost 
$200 a day. It was a terrible contract but it was bid well. Hoedads  
 
would bid on contracts and then give them out to the different 
crews.  
Long:  What was the relationship between the women's crew and the 
men?  
Campbell:  I thought it was good. We would have what was called a general 
meeting every year, and all the crews would come. You have about 
500 people, food provided, giant meetings. I remember really being 
welcoming. But I think there were  a couple of crews that didn't like 
us very much. But usually it was on the individuals, not crews. 
Some crews were like all men, and they could plant faster and 
harder. It wasn't a big part of it, but sometimes it's a little 
resentment. Again I was living  with blinders because I was living 
with these women and traveling all over. But they probably felt we 
didn't hold our own, or they couldn't count on us. But we never 
defaulted on a contract. I thought we did well.  
Raiskin: When you had a contract that was  a $200 a day, how did you know 
whether you were getting those good contracts compared to the 
other Hoedad groups?  
Campbell:  You had the general meeting and the bidders and they would work 
it out, and they would advocate for your group. We did plant with 
other groups. Sometimes there'd be two crews on a contract or 
three. We generally we would get excited. We liked planting with 
the Red Star group. We planted with the family group. It was a 
really good fit. I remember there was one guy from, I think it was  
 
the family group, he was our honorary guy and he would dress up 
as a gal and be in our pictures and stuff. We really loved him.  
Long:  There were other crews that had women working?  
Campbell:  Yeah.  
Long:  Full Moon Rising was just women only. That distinguished it.  
Campbell:  I think some crews had a 50/50 rule, where they had to have 50% 
women. There was just a couple I think. I just want to say one that 
was, they were called the Mudsharks and they were tough.  
Long:  Did you ever go up the trees to harvest seeds? 
Campbell:  No. No desire. But I heard it was good money. My sisters did 
similar stuff in Klamath, but they chopped the trees down and then 
they would come and everybody would get the cones. Different 
style.  
Raiskin: How did the cooking work?  
Campbell:  We were known for having what was called a “Camp Mom.” One 
member would volunteer to stay home every day. Clean. They 
would make breakfast, wash dishes. You would pack lunch before 
they leave. You'd pack the lunch, have breakfast, wash the dishes, 
clean the  camp, make dinner. That was really nice. You would 
leave with a lunch to go and Camp Mom took care of it. You would 
have hot breakfast and you would have a great dinner coming 
home and Camp Mom took care of everything.   
 
Raiskin: Did people want to be Camp Mom or was it a coveted position or 
not?  
Campbell:  I liked being Camp Mom, but I realized some people didn't. That 
baffled me because I'm like, warm and cozy. But it was a long day 
because you had to get up before they did and you did all the way 
to dinner. It was a long day and some people don't like doing that 
kind of work at all.  
Raiskin: It's just one person doing it?  
Campbell:  One person. Also if someone was sick, you were there for the  
someone who was sick. I liked it as a break. It was warm, but there 
were definitely people who did not want to do it, which I would 
think it would be a reverse. You'd think people, I want to stay 
home.  
Long:  Was Full Moon Rising all lesbian or just all women?  
Campbell:  No, just all women. Though they were few and far between. They 
brought disease too.  
Long:  The non-lesbians?  
Campbell:  Yeah. I remember a bunch of us got sick and it was this one straight 
woman that brought disease. Well that was our conclusion 
anyways.  
Raiskin: Sexually transmitted infection?   
 
Campbell:  Yeah  because we didn't have it. Then she showed up and then all of 
a sudden everybody's got, what was it called? I can't remember, but 
something.  
Long:  What food did you have and how did you keep food cold up there?  
Campbell:  When I look back I'm thinking, how  did we do that? Tofu, we'd get 
bulk at Surata in a bucket. One of the Camp Mom's job  was to 
change the water every day. As long as the water was changed, that 
was good. It was cold. You're rarely camping in warm weather. 
One time we were in Montana, we were planting, we had our shirts 
off, it was hot, and then boom, it was snowing and we were putting 
them packing up and we left. It was two inches of snow by one 
o'clock. Things would change quickly. The food, we'd have whole 
grain bread from the local bakery. But we really must have had to 
plan ahead because there weren't healthy eating places between 
here and Missoula, Montana, and we would be driving.  So we did 
some really good planning. I saw in our journals, I think that's the 
one thing that's really stood out to me were grocery lists. Willow 
Run margarine. We did a lot of cabbage as opposed to lettuce 
because cabbage stores and bread was okay. When I started in that 
five dollar a day morale, really people were complaining about 
what we had was cabbage and moldy cheese sandwiches. I mean, it 
was cut off. Here you have the morale and you have this food. But 
again, to me it was like, “Yes! Bread and cheese and cabbage, I'll 
take it.” But in looking back, I can see why they complained quite a 
bit about the food.   
 
Raiskin: What haven't we asked you about Full Moon Rising that we should 
understand?  
Campbell:  The crew rotated. There were women that would join and retire 
and join and retire. We'd have visiting crew members from other 
crews, and the name Annie Redstar— and I have a picture of her. 
Annie Redstar came and planted with us for a  little while, or Fawn  
from the family one came and planted with us for a while. It wasn't 
a static group. We had children too. I know Myeba’s  daughter 
traveled with us for at least a month I think, or two.  
Raiskin: Would she plant or would she stay at the  camp?  
Campbell:  I can't quite remember, but I think she stayed home with Camp 
Mom because she was about four. But there was always something 
going on. It's really good to look at the pictures, because almost all 
the pictures we’re pretty happy. It was cold, like I said, you'd start 
out and you could not fell your fingers or your toes. You would 
start out and you knew you really had to have faith that within 
about twenty  minutes, sensation would come back. Then in about 
an hour you'd be sweating, and you'd be warm all the rest of the 
day. I remember this one gal, she forgot her rain gear. What she did 
is she did not take a lunch break. She just kept planting, and that 
way she never got cold.  
Raiskin: Do you remember anybody getting hurt or very sick?   
 
Campbell: I'm surprised we didn't. I'm surprised there weren't more knee 
injuries, back injuries. We didn't take anyone away in an 
ambulance. I know that Susie, but that was during the summer I 
wasn't around and it was a different, it was a pine cone.  
Raiskin: That's Susie Grimes's accident you're referring to?  
Campbell:  Yeah. I didn't know much about that other than women were 
talking about it. I didn't know Susie. I didn't know about cone 
picking. We also did drugs quite a bit. It was cocaine, pot, acid. I 
did cocaine I think once, I'm like, eh, not for me. Did acid, I could 
do without that. Pot once or twice, it just didn't work for me. But 
several of the women did cocaine on a regular basis. I'm sure that's 
where their money went to. It was sad to see women put  so much 
money into that. It just didn't work for me. I didn't have a judgment 
about women then about their drug use. We drank a lot, too. I did 
do that. Because if you were in a contract in like Idaho, and most 
towns were basically two things, a gas station and a bar. We would 
go in. I remember— you had these inspectors that would inspect 
your work. These two inspectors in Montana also worked at the 
bar. When we took a day off and we'd go into town, I mean they 
would literally give us so many free drinks and we were so drunk, 
drove drunk, puked our guts out. Quite the scene there.  
Raiskin: You never felt endangered as women in these male dominated 
towns?   
 
Campbell:  Sometimes we’d passed through towns. We were braless, tank tops, 
buzzed head and, ignorance is  bliss. It wasn't ignorant. We would 
just pass through towns and we knew it was probably not super 
safe, but we didn't have that I can recall, no one came out to our 
camps. No one harassed us, which is amazing because I would 
think we would be a sitting duck for male violence like that. The 
misogyny. I don't recall any incidents. But yeah that definitely, in 
retrospect I'm like, oh my gosh, I would never do what I did then in 
terms of safety. But we were pretty isolated and the roads were 
pretty bad. Sometimes you're going up a steep mountain road with 
a drop off and you're slipping like this, because it's muddy. I have 
three journals that talk about all the years, but there was also one, 
we called it a table of contents. It never had a book. If there was 
something that was said or a saying we would write it. There's this 
whole table of contents with, I don't know, maybe about 100 
sayings. One was like slip, slip, slip, slide, slide, slide. Just things 
related to happened that day about driving on those insane roads, 
which sometimes we'd like say,  well, I'm only going to go if Myeba  
drives. Because for some reason she could, she was fearless. She'd 
get on those roads. I don't think I ever was much of a, they're called 
crummies. The vehicles are called crummies. I was number never 
much of a crummy driver, but Myeba  was. I'm trying to think, I 
think Martha was, Martha Crawford. But it really took a special 
skill.   
 
 I was okay on the flats  but drop-offs with mud— You can see in the 
pictures, sometimes we would sink in that mud and we would 
have to dig our way out, dig and put logs and everybody's 
pushing. I don't recall anybody getting hurt even though a log 
snapping or a truck rolling back, so many things. I remember in 
one contract we were all loading, we were going from Montana to 
Wyoming. We looked up and the lattice for the yurt had blown off. 
It was somewhere back on the freeway. What did we do? Got back 
and went along the freeway and we found it. How did we find that 
lattice on the side of the freeway, fortunately? It had some breaks 
and again, some amazing women fixed it.  
Long:  Did it hold up the canvas?  
Campbell:  Yeah. You'd put the lattice around and then these poles to the 
lattice, and then we would all drag the canvas over. It was a 
twenty-two foot yurt so it was big. Then plastic around the outside. 
Which done well it looks nice but in some of the pictures at Dorena 
contract, it was just like barely there. It looked depressing and 
everybody was depressed.  
Long:  Did you use cots or just sleep on the ground?  
Campbell:  A lot of women had their own vehicles. Not cots but foam thin 
foam mats. Within I think about six months, I got my own Step van. 
When you have your own space, you get a lot more relationships. 
That was a lot more fun. I had a really  cool Step Van. I had running  
 
water and a wood stove and a four inch foam bed and 8-track 
stereo.  
Raiskin: How did you get that van?  
Campbell:  After that lucrative contract where we made almost $200 a day, I 
could afford to buy a Step Van that some hippie was selling. The 
crummy would go— that was the work transport. But then there 
would probably be five different vehicles. Liz Crane's van, Otter—
Kelly Reese's step van, my step van, Simon's truck and I think there 
was probably another vehicle.  
Long:  A caravan. 
Campbell:  Then one time I developed a gas tank leak, and we all sat and I 
don't think I have pictures of that where we're all in a circle and 
we're chewing gum. We're all chewing gum to patch this hole in 
my gas tank, which worked. But now in retrospect a little sheet 
metal and a screw, but I didn't know then. It was funny. It was just 
funny because we're in some town in Eastern Oregon. It's amazing 
we're alive really. One guy got for some reason in the crummy, 
there were these little screws poked through. It's just some of the 
design.  There was probably a liner at one time, but the liner was 
gone so it was just metal. We would, I don't know why, we would 
cut off locks of hair and we would rubber band. There were these 
little locks of hair, little tiny locks of hair. It had no meaning other 
than a joke, silly, whatever. It could been symbolic on some level. 
But this one guy got in, he was riding with us again a visiting  
 
person from another crew, catching a ride with us. He was like, 
“Why all the hair?” We're like, “We don't know. We just started 
doing it.” But he swore he knew he was just like, they're doing 
voodoo or something I don't know.  
Raiskin: Could you characterize the women who worked in this crew? Was 
there anything similar about them or was it just an eclectic group of 
women?  
Campbell:  It was white, some Jewish women, and mostly working class. 
Because I remember when we did the split, women who wanted to 
do things differently, it was fourteen  working class women against 
six middle-class women. That always I thought it was like, could 
you take a look at that? That might be part of the issue here.  
Raiskin: Working class women wanted to do share and the— 
Campbell:  Yeah, we wanted to just do share and they want to do piece and 
share, which was, it had  potential, but I just didn't think we had to 
split about it. There were no working class women in that group. 
But there were a couple of middle-class women with the Full Moon 
Rising. I wouldn't say middle-class women planted harder or 
faster, I couldn't see any pattern there.  
Long: Why did you decide to quit?  
Campbell:  They were doing the split. I'd been planting for two and a half 
years. It was really hard work. I was actually on my way to join a 
tree planning group in Washington called the Marmots. My partner  
 
at the time, Martha was up there. They were doing by the share, 
they were very much like Full Moon Rising. They weren't a crew 
from Hoedads, they were a Washington group and they were 
welcoming us. I was on my way up there. I remember pulling over 
in Tillamook, Oregon. I pulled into a Safeway parking lot and I'm 
like, I don't want to do this hard work. I do not want to freeze and 
do that anymore. Then I was in my step van and I had that thought. 
I pulled over and there was a knock on my door, on my step van 
door. I opened it up, and there were two, there was a man and 
woman, hippies, and they were like, “Are you looking for work?” I 
was like, “Yes, I am.” They needed help picking psilocybin 
mushrooms in the Tillamook area. I started doing that.  
Raiskin: Was that with just the two of them?  
Campbell:  I think they had like four people. People would pick mushrooms 
and in the process they would damage cow fences and the cows 
would get out. They wanted us to, and we could pick mushrooms, 
but we kept other people out. At least that's what I was told. I did 
that and— 
Raiskin: Was it legal to harvest those?  
Campbell:  It's not legal  to trespass always, but it's legal to pick psilocybin 
mushrooms. I had lots and lots of psilocybin mushrooms. I came 
back to Eugene and a bunch of the tree planters, I remember being, 
I did that for a couple months it's seasonal. I came back to Eugene 
and we had savings from planting. I had applied at a collective  
 
bakery. A bunch of the tree planters were in the house. I get the call 
that I'm hired. I cover it up and I go, “I'm joining another 
collective.” They're like, “Oh my God.” Then  I joined Solstice 
Bakery Collective and I did that for two years. We were burnt out 
on the collective experience and the meetings. The crit, self crit, the 
drama that goes with collectives. Then I started that collective and 
it was warm. Bakery's a great place to work in the winter. Good 
food.  
Raiskin: Do you think there is a model of collectives that is sustainable?  
Campbell:  I think it can be done. When I look at Eugene and I see how many 
collectives there were, and how many co-ops there were, and how 
many are left. I think the Growers Market Co-op is still going. A lot 
of them switched to non co-op, but Surata and Genesis Juice, they 
just couldn't make it. They were often started by someone in my 
opinion, started by someone that was just fired up about something 
like whole grain bakery or making tofu. But it all required long 
hours and hard work. People, I think, got burned out on that. Tree 
planting was, at the time it didn't seem like hard work, but after 
two years it did. I wasn't in pain then, but I do now. My knees 
bother me, my hips bother me, my shoulders bother me. It could be 
the hard work of tree planting. Could be a number things.  
Raiskin: The bakery was also collective work, did you have burnout in that?  
Campbell:  Yeah. When I left it continued for quite a while, but it did shift into 
an owner. Because I think when people are there making the same  
 
salary as someone that joins. You train them they leave, at some 
point you go, let's make it a variation of a collective, where there 
are owners that stick with it and do all the training and hard work. 
There's something about that. Surata’s  is still going on. Genesis is 
still going.  
Raiskin: When you were living in Eugene now— you're a town person now, 
what was a typical day or weekend like for you?  
Campbell:  Bakery work was long hours, because you had to start super early 
in the morning to get the bread started. Granola we made. Then 
you'd have days off. I can't remember just doing bakery. There 
were a lot of women. Amazon Kung Fu started up pretty close in 
there. I was training. Again all those women. Amazon Kung Fu 
when it started, I'm sure it was like thirty  or forty  women. They 
even had their own place. We had our own place, all the women 
built the floor, all the women did the instructing. There were no 
male teachers or there were male students. I was always in some 
kind of women's group. Even the tree planting, even though we 
weren't planting trees we still lived near each other, saw each other. 
Did Equinox and solstice  circles together, thanks to Myeba. She 
made a song book. We'd get together and sing, and she has the 
song book. I hope she gave you a copy of all the songs we used to 
sing. I just went from one women's group,  the tree planting to 
Amazon Kung Fu. You had the women Take Back the Night 
marches, and Amazon Kung Fu did the security. We were trained 
in nonviolent confrontation. The women Take Back the Night  
 
march, which were huge in those days, many blocks long. Then 
Amazon Kung Fu we were stationed along the way.  
 Then when I started a women's drum group, then we played 
drums at the end of Take Back the Night. I was always for some 
reason connected to Take Back the Night, either security or— I 
almost never participated because I was usually doing security or 
then we were drumming at the end. Now I'm in Samba Ja, the 
Brazilian percussion group locally. We played like the Take Back 
the Night march would come and we would meet them. It was 
planned. We would meet them and then they would pass us and 
then we would play. Always something. There was never a time 
when I wasn't doing something with women.  
Raiskin: Where were you living?  
Campbell:  In the Whiteaker  area, which was a lot cheaper in those days. We 
nicknamed it “Felony Flats”. I always said, if my porch light went 
out, if I didn't fix it in two days, there would be someone sleeping 
on my porch. I remember Myeba  they lived next door and they 
woke up to someone sleeping on their couch. It was a rough 
neighborhood and lots of drugs. The Amazon Kung Fu was just a 
couple blocks away. I remember I had a friend, she was worked for 
the police, Eugene police department. I said how I walk from my 
house on Fifth Street to Second Street, three blocks to the Amazon 
Kung Fu. She said, “If you knew what went on in those blocks, you 
would not walk those blocks.” Again, ignorance is bliss.   
 
 But it was unfortunate because after she told me that, I was like, it 
was no fun anymore. But I never had a problem walking from there 
to the kwoon  as we called it. We traveled a lot there too, because 
we would travel to tournaments and we would travel to the Pacific 
Women's Martial Arts camps. It was martial arts and it was all 
women. It was amazing. Every type of martial arts was represented 
there. You'd have the best women in that field of Aikido, Kung Fu 
and Judo and Karate, and Taekwondo. I remember there was a 
style we called, they called river fighting. It was done a lot on the 
ground because that style was developed in a very slippery, 
muddy area. The women often had their hands on the ground and 
fought from the ground.  
Raiskin: Where were those gatherings?  
Campbell:  It was Pacific Association of Women's Martial Arts, PAWMA it was 
called PAWMA. Anywhere along the Pacific. It could be down in 
San Francisco, Seattle. It was here once, but that was after I was out 
of the loop. Still going, which Nadia Telsey  would know about that.  
Raiskin: What years did you say finish working at the bakery?  
Campbell:  I was done tree planning in like ‘79/’80, tree planting was ‘80/’82. I 
think the Kung Fu started right about then I went to— I'm saying 
1990, but I actually took it, I still train in what I learned there. Even 
though I'm not in Amazon Kung Fu, it's dissolved. The two 
instructors went north and south. During the recession, one woman 
moved north, Moon and started Seven Stars Kung Fu. The other,  
 
Coleen Gregan moved to South San Francisco and started a 
women’s martial arts school  down there. Then we were left here, 
Linda  Mac  and I and we still trained and we had belt tests. Then 
Linda left and then I moved and still had stuff from the kwoon. 
Then finally I took it up to Seven Star where Moon was, and gave 
them the mats, the padded mats. I think I gave them mirrors. 
Equipment and stuff to help them when we stopped. But I learned 
a soft style called liangong  at the PAWMA Camp. I still do that 
after all these years.  
Raiskin: Do you do that with other people?  
Campbell:  No just do it on my own.  
Raiskin: Do you feel a loss of community these days?  
Campbell:  No, but I do miss— there was a magic then. There were women 
construction, women automotive, women trucking. It really was 
amazing. I was so glad I was part of that, but I'm fine now. A lot of 
women in my life, a lot of my blood family moved here, my mom, 
my sister, my brother. Even though I hitchhiked here with no roots 
over time they all came here. My blood family's here big time, I’ve 
nieces and nephews— they're all here. I think that probably fills 
that gap of the nurturing. When there's a woman's event and I'll go, 
my partner will go and we'll probably get, there might be three 
faces from the past. I know they're all here. A lot of those women 
are still  here. I go to events and I feel like I'm the only one still  
 
doing it. That feels funny. You go to Gay Pride, I see maybe three 
or four people, all the young women fortunately.  
Raiskin: Why do you think this is?  
Campbell:  I don't know. I'm like, where are you? Why don't you come to— 
Trying to think. Well, if there's a woman comedian in town that 
turns out a lot like Suzanne Westenhoefer, Kate Clinton. We just 
did Olivia, 45th anniversary, and there's Ferron  and Chris 
Williamson and Suzanne Westenhoefer.  
Raiskin: You did Olivia was it— 
Campbell:  Just this year.  
Raiskin: You did a cruise or a concert?  
Campbell:  A cruise. The forty-fifth anniversary cruise. I did see five Eugene 
women there. But I don't know why the turnout isn't, I don't see 
more faces. Maybe they go to events and wonder where I am, too. 
Raiskin: Some people have talked about as lesbians and gay people became 
more assimilated, more accepted, there's less of the pressure to 
bring people together. What do you think about that as a theory?  
Campbell: I think that's part of it. I think also isolation I think. I'm in Twelve  
Step a lot and that was a big part of the whole era. I know we 
talked about drugs and isolation. If someone drinks, going out 
socially takes effort. In my case because I have blood  family here, I 
have lunch with my blood sisters every week, once a week. I get  
 
really filled up. Myeba  was doing, we would meet four times a year 
for the Equinox and Solstice, and she is doing— When her partner 
died, Rhys, that was really hard for all of us. Especially hard for 
her. But she is doing Circle this month, and it's like “Oh, Circle, 
Circle.” That’ll be good.  
Raiskin: What were you doing from, well I think we got up to 1990. What 
have you been doing in Eugene in the last twenty  years?  
Campbell:  I drove a van, preschool van for  Pearl Buck Center, which helps 
develop mentally challenged children and adults. Now the children 
I transported were children, generally of parents that may have 
gotten pregnant but can't really raise a child, so they get the help. I 
would pick up a preschool route, and it was really awesome 
because it was in the morning and the afternoon. Then I went to the 
LCC, the Lane Community College for a couple of years and then U 
of O. Then I graduated with a degree in Spanish and a teaching 
certificate. Then I taught Spanish at the high schools till 2016, and I 
retired. I still sub. Tomorrow I'm having lunch with a bunch of my 
teaching friends. I did teach in Springfield, and I did teach when 
Springfield passed that Measure, Measure 9— I don't remember the 
number, but it was nasty. No special rights for homosexuals. I was 
working there then, and I had short hair, really short hair. I dressed 
as close to hippy as I could. I had all this political background. 
They targeted a woman at Thurston Middle, and I was working at 
Hamlin Middle. I remember teaching, so this would be 1989, 1990. 
They had passed that legislation and they were the OCA, which  
 
was Oregon, they called themselves the Oregon Citizens Alliance. 
We called them the Oregon Christian Alliance, they were just 
terrible. They were picketing out at Thurston Middle about there 
was a lesbian PE teacher. She was not in any of our stuff. She was 
so mainstream blend in and she was still targeted.  
 But I remember sitting at a faculty meeting like this, and they were 
talking about what was happening out at Thurston and the 
picketing and the school policy around it. I remember folding over 
sobbing. It just came on me. I felt like that could've been me. It 
would've been ten times worse because if they looked at any of my 
history, it would've been nasty. In their standards, not my 
standards. Because I was just so much more out. But I remember 
sobbing and I remember these women coming up and they're like, 
“We got you, we got your back.” I was just like, wow. I remember 
even the principal at the school wrote me a card saying I've got 
your back. I was like jeez, that was tough.  
Long:  You were out to your colleagues at the school?  
Campbell:  By then I was, I wasn't out, but I wasn't in, I was just like myself. I 
didn't talk about my life, but people knew. But then shortly 
thereafter, not shortly, but after probably about seven years, I went 
to the high schools. I really did not want to lead the Gay Kids 
Alliance, but they were like, “Could you lead the Gay Kids 
Alliance?” I'm like, “Just because I'm the lesbian? I don't want to do 
that.” I just felt I didn't want to draw any attention to myself. I just  
 
wanted my life. But I did. I did the GSA as they were called, Gay 
Student Alliance, which U of O does such an awesome teach-out. I 
went all out. When we had field trips, we went to—Nike would do 
“Gay Nike.” We'd go up and they'd have all the high schools from 
all over Oregon come. They would give them shoes and backpacks 
and food and show them three stream things of gay athletes. These 
are sixteen-year-olds, fourteen  year olds going up seeing this. They 
would always have a guest speaker that was like Bruce Jenner at 
the time he was Bruce. I didn't understand then, but I do now why 
he was the featured speaker. He [another young man] wrote a book 
and he was sixteen. He found an early detection to pancreatic 
cancer at the age of sixteen, and he wrote a book about, you can do 
this. He was a featured speaker. They would just shower these high 
school gay kids who were getting bullied at school. They would go 
to Nike and they would have the most amazing day.  
Long:  What years was that?  
Campbell:  I would say that was early 2000s, late ‘90s. 
Long:  You were teaching at a high school then?  
Campbell:  Yeah.  
Long:  What high school was that?  
Campbell:  Me? 
Long:  Yeah.   
 
Campbell:  I taught at Springfield High and Thurston High. I was at Thurston 
High during the shooting.  
Raiskin:  Can you just say something about that for people who don't know 
what that was?  
Campbell:  There was a school shooting at Thurston High. It was early in the 
school shootings. Kip Kinkle came on campus, killed two kids and 
wounded twenty-two others, killed his parents. He is in jail now. 
They're trying to commute his sentence of some sort. Then 
Columbine happened a few months later. We were May 21, and 
they were, I think they were the following year, but it was close.  
Long:  You were at the high school, was that Thurston? You were at the 
high school when this happened. How did you find out it was 
happening when you were  at that school?  
Campbell:  That was the one day I was home sick. The magic in my life is 
unreal. A friend of mine, a lesbian who teaches at another school 
calls my house. Why she would call my house when I would've 
been at work? But she called my house at 8:30 and I said, “Why are 
you calling me?” She said, “There's been a shooting at your 
school.” I said, “Oh my God.” I knew Kip, I had Kip Kinkle as a 
student. His parents were Spanish teachers so they were my peers. 
I said, “Oh my God, I got to hang up. I've got to call my mom 
because she's going to see this.” If she hadn't have called me, why 
she called at home? Crazy. I wouldn't have been able to call my 
mom and say, “Have you seen the news?”   
 
 She said, “No.” I said, “Good, I'm home. I'm alive.” All the cousins 
and everybody, aunts and uncles calling and saying, "Gladys 
teaches at that school, oh my God." No one had to panic about 
whether I was alive or dead, because they kept saying that Spanish 
teacher, because Faith Kinkle had been killed. Just that so weird 
that she called me. To this day I'm like, no reason for her to call my 
home, which she had almost never done. She was part of the drum 
group. It allowed me to notify my mom who then did not have to 
die of a heart attack, which she probably would have. 
Long:  What was Kip Kinkle like as a student?  
Campbell:  I always say in my list of top ten, he would not have been on it. He 
was a jovial little silly guy. Though I did have stuff in my file, I had 
a file called student concerns. In there was a photocopy of two 
things he had done when they did tests. They turned it over and 
while he was waiting, he doodled, and he doodled a person with a 
spot right here. I did photocopy, I did keep it, I did think it was 
odd, but not enough to think he's going to be a school shooter. He 
was really a likable kid. Then the other was, he wrote in, we had 
these workbooks. I got this workbook from another student and it 
says, I'm going to shoot you on the head and kill you. I told that 
student, I said, “That is a horrific thing and I need to you to write a 
letter of apology.” He said, “I didn't write that, Kip did.” Because 
he had been sitting there and Kip had just leaned over and written 
this thing. I photocopied it and put it in a file called his mom, and 
we didn't think anything of it. Kip was good he goes, “I was just  
 
goofing off. I don't mean any of that. We were just being silly.” But 
both of those items I turned over to the FBI when they came and 
said, “Does anybody have anything?” I said, no idea. In retrospect, 
I'm like God sure. But at the time, I mean Kip it seemed like a 
teenage boy might do that. But I did file it in my file. When I retired 
I'm like, what am I going to do with this? I have a Kip Kinkle file 
and I had a friend, Renee Cobb who was part of the women's 
community and she said, “I want that because I have more Kip 
stuff.” Because she had one of the kids that was killed was one of 
her students. But I remember it was women Take Back the Night 
march, because that'd  be, yeah, because  May 21. I remember I was 
home, I was sick. It was Thursday and they often did the March on 
Thursday. But I went to that rally at night because I really needed 
to be around strong women speaking out. It felt so good to be in 
that group of women. They were all speaking out so powerfully. 
Because they always did the march on Thursday and the shooting 
was on Thursday.  
Raiskin: I have a question back to the GSAs, because they were fairly new 
and I'm sure controversial in Springfield. I didn't even know they 
had GSAs in Springfield. We heard recently about the Love Makes 
a Family photo exhibit that went around during the Measures, and 
that they were not allowed at Springfield High or Thurston High or 
one of them. What did you see the experience of these gay kids in 
the Springfield schools was like?   
 
Campbell:  The GSAs were big and active in Springfield, actually bigger and 
more active than in Eugene. Because I was always wanting to 
connect with Eugene. Now Eugene, it would fluctuate. For some 
reason I was there and did it for ten years. The other girl [woman] 
was very— she was a counselor, she wasn't a lesbian, but she was 
committed. She had a lot of lesbian friends, so she really wanted to 
make a stand. We really had a strong GSA. We had had a connect, 
we would get together. It was so empowering for them. They were 
so hungry for everything to do with we would have the day of 
silence. It's always fun. All the kids campus-wide would try to do 
the day of silence. They would think that if they accidentally spoke 
they blew it. I said, “No you can continue to be silent.” Teenagers 
really have to talk, so it was such a challenge for them.  
Long:  What's that supposed to signify when they're silent all day?  
Campbell:  Because we wanted gay allies to do that, so that they could 
experience what it's like to live the life of a lesbian or a gay man. 
Not being able to talk about your life. That's so right on, because 
that was my life in the school district for the first ten years. Even 
yesterday I was talking— I had lunch with my family, sisters. It's 
always hard to understand which family you're talking about, so I 
say my blood family. My sister said, “You were always such a good 
listener.” I said, “I think I got really good skills at that from work.” 
Because I would talk with people and I could control that 
conversation they knew nothing about me, but there was this great 
conversation. I think it was just I didn't want them to know  
 
anything about my life, especially with the picketing and 
everything. But at the same time there was an advantage there. I 
was not in the drama. When stuff would be said and so-and-so and 
this and that, I wasn't in the drama. I really liked that. Besides it 
being oppressive, it was also emotionally safer in general, too. Little 
Peyton Place, the drama of work environments. I wasn't in that 
very much, so it was cool. I loved it.  
Raiskin: Interesting, the advantages of being isolated a little bit.  
Campbell:  Yes. When I went home, I could do— I also lived in Eugene and 
worked in Springfield and I don't think that was accidental. I think 
that was meant to be. Because when I would go to WinCo in 
Springfield to pick up groceries, I would have three parent 
conferences before I got out of there. I always thought it's better if I 
live there and work here. Thurston was way out there. I remember 
kids would say when I'd give directions how to get somewhere it’s 
like, how do I get there without going through Eugene? I heard 
there's a lot of hippies. They really did live with this fear of Eugene, 
and of it was a scary place to go to if you were— 
Long:  Yet people in Eugene have that feeling about Springfield.  
Campbell:  I love Springfield now a little bit.  
Raiskin: Why?  
Campbell:  Well, I have a lot of family there. I like the school district’s  very 
down to earth basics. My sister was a bus supervisor , bus driver,  
 
bus supervisor. She said all the schedules that they have in 4J and 
this and that and early release and all this special that, it costs so 
much money. Because the busing was insane. Springfield was 
pretty much just 8:00 to 3:00, the basics, and yet had good results, I 
thought in the academics, outstanding science program. When all 
the school districts were cutting back, Springfield never did cut 
automotive, wood shop, drafting. They didn't cut those. Now you'll 
see in the news they're all going to Springfield because they still 
have those programs.  How do you still have auto and how do you 
do drafting and woodshop and all that? Because they still have 
those classes.  
Raiskin: That's the measure to get those back into the high schools and 
nobody knows how to do it. 
Campbell:  They never gave up. They would let go of other things besides the, 
they're called CTE, the Career Technical Engineering, CTE.  
Long:  What was it like when Springfield voted in the anti-gay legislation?  
Campbell:  I had no idea. I was just sitting there normal as could be, next thing 
I'm just sobbing because of that. It was so scary. But— 
Long:  Was that particularly about the city of Springfield voting in, not the 
ballot Measure 9?  
Campbell:  Yeah, and they got it overturned legally. The people didn't turn it 
over. The legal system turned it over because it was discriminated. 
They can't do that. But they were sure proud of it, and so was the  
 
OCA. Very proud of it. But teachers generally are very liberal. I just 
felt really supported. I mean for the  principal to take the time to say 
we got you that really meant a lot.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a partner through all this time?  
Campbell:  Yeah, but I went through a divorce. I was with someone for twelve  
years, went through divorce and see that doesn't get shared. At 
work you'll hear, so-and-so miscarried, so-and-so got a divorce. 
They didn't hear about my divorce. I had four miscarriages while I 
was teaching. I think maybe two during the whole AI thing.  
Raiskin: The alternative insemination?  
Campbell:  Yeah. Then they would all talk about, so-and-so had a miscarriage. 
I'm like, toughen up.  
Raiskin: You didn't have that support of your personal  life. 
Campbell:  No. 
Raiskin: That's hard.  
Campbell:  But again I  was out of the gossip. I was not in the gossip and I think 
that made it easier in some ways.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever get married?  
Campbell:  Yes. Several times. We did the one in Portland where everybody 
was racing up there. That was so fun because when was that? Two 
thousand four, six? We raced up there. Actually they were racing  
 
up there, and then three weeks later we're like, they're still doing it. 
Okay, let's go up there. We were greeted with a guy dressed as a 
fairy giving out wedding cake. He was on roller blades and his 
wedding cake. We went in and got married and Oregon law says 
you have to get your license and you have to go— it was all 
organized. Then we went to the other place where they had every 
denomination and you're in line again. We come up and they have 
this list and they said, “Do you want Methodist, Christian, Pagan, 
Wiccan?” They had all these different religions. We said, “Well, 
we'll go pagan.” “Okay, sit over there.” We sat down and we're 
waiting, and there was a long line for the pagan. A lot of people 
wanted pagan. This woman walks by and she has this rainbow 
sash, and she just looked gorgeous. We said, “Well, who are you?” 
She said, “I'm the Methodist minister.” We were like, “We'll go 
with her.” She didn't have a line, and we both have Methodist 
backgrounds. I have very little religion, but that was probably the 
one kind of church we'd go to on Easter. We went with the 
Methodist minister because she didn't have a line and she just 
radiated awesome energy. Then they refunded our money and 
everything. But it was really great to be part of that.  
Raiskin:  They annulled all the marriages.  
Campbell:  So organized, go here, go there. The roller skaters and they were, it 
was like so campy and so fun. Then we got married in Washington 
because it wasn't legal in Oregon yet. The gal at my HR in 
Springfield school district took the time to tell me if you get  
 
married, you get all these benefits. We're all like, okay, we're going 
to Washington. We're not going to wait for Oregon. We went 
Washington. I can't remember, but it increased, it saved us 
hundreds of dollars a month being married, hundreds of dollars. It 
was only because she took the time to say, “You really should do 
this and here's why.” She wasn't a lesbian. Good for her. She had 
good head on her shoulders.  
Raiskin: You're already retired now?  
Campbell:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: How's that for you?  
Campbell:  It's very nice. I sub though, to make ends meet. Got to go on the  
Olivia cruise. Myeba's having her circles again. It feels like, and this 
whole the archiving thing, seeing Susie Grimes. There's time to 
reconnect. That may be part of the whole thing too, is that when we 
were working together as women, but when we all got into our 
jobs, that became our lives more  than— I mean, the simulation 
definitely part of it. My whole life was, there wasn't much room 
besides teaching. Now that we're retired, I'm seeing people.  
Raiskin: Do you have thoughts about aging as a lesbian?  
Campbell:  Yeah. Helping my— mom passed with Parkinson's. Seeing my 
sisters I have two sisters older and three younger. Two younger, 
brother younger. Seeing us age. It's a concern.   
 
Raiskin: Do you have any specific concerns as a lesbian?  
Campbell:  The only is having maybe students that weren't so fond of me as a 
teacher, somehow ending up in a nursing home and they're 
working there. That's my only far out probably not going to happen 
fear. Other than that, I'm all about care facilities. I don't mind. I tell 
my partner, “I do not mind if I'm in a care facility and I don't need 
you to visit me every single day.” I think some people have that 
feeling like, I would never put my mom in a nursing home, visiting 
every— I did visit my mom. Being retired I got to see my mom 
almost every day. That was, I think that makes saying goodbye a 
lot easier. I can let go. But she had to be in a care facility. Just in 
terms of the Hoyer lifts and cleaning. She needed that twenty-four  
hour care that some people do at home, and can make it work, but 
it takes a lot. I have a niece who lives locally who does at home 
care. It's called Addus Home Care, and so she places— That is a 
wonderful thing that the emphasis is on stay at home as long as 
you can. That is the emphasis and that is a good thing. At some 
point you may need, I really am glad that we have Death with 
Dignity in Oregon and actually all in the Northwest and California. 
That is a beautiful thing. I think I would rather have death with 
dignity than be like my mom for two years with  Parkinson's. It was 
a nice place. I mean she got to sit at a dinner place and know 
people.  
Raiskin: Where was she living?   
 
Campbell:  It was called Gateway Gardens I think. They have small, no more 
than I think there's twelve  people max and they all eat together. Or 
you can eat in your room, too. 
Raiskin: Many people in these interviews have had a vision of collective 
living again in old age. Either taking over a floor of the Eugene 
Hotel or maybe the Springfield Gateway place. Do you have any 
ideas about collective living or communal living again?  
Campbell:  It does sound good to be in a living situation like that, it does. I 
think because in my peer group, I don't think there'll be too many 
lesbian issues. There might be a grumpy old somebody.  
Raiskin: You mean if you were just go into any facility?  
Campbell:  Yeah. I know at my mom's, a number of the staff were GSA kids. 
They were drawn to that. They were like hey Jessica. I knew so 
many of them and they would like, your mom's been, and I just 
walked in and knew three out of the ten staff. They were all GSA 
kids. It just seems like there's a higher number of lesbian/gay 
people in that field of caretaking.  
Raiskin: I wonder why— it's interesting. If you were to give some advice or 
life wisdom to a young person who is watching this video, would 
you have anything specific to say?  
Campbell:  Well, to young kids generally I tell them posture, think about your 
posture. I used to write on the board in my last few years I would 
write stick figures and write “postura,” and they knew it. You'd see  
 
the kids like, because they slump. Our posture. But in terms of 
lesbians, a lot of kids would come out to me. It's probably not 
politically correct in terms of like supporting those young lesbians, 
I just was really adamant about, you don't have to worry about 
labels. You don't. They would change. They'd be lesbian one day 
and then they would be bi and then they'd be straight. They would 
just be all over the map. I think at that age they're dying for labels. 
They want to be labeled. But I kept telling them, “You don't have to 
be anything. You don't have to be lesbian, gay, bi. Now there are so 
many labels. A friend and I were in the Samba where the older girls 
in the Samba we're in our sixties. This young guy,  he's in his 
thirties, he was telling us about his relationship. “I have multiple 
lovers.” We looked at him and we were like, “Yeah we have that 
too.” You couldn't even say you were in a couple. I mean, if you 
said you were in a couple, in the end of the ‘70s and ‘80s, you were  
banned. You could not be monogamous. Remember this, I don't 
know if you know this one, “monogamy, schmonogamy,” the 
music. It was just funny for him to look at us. I do feel aging. I'm 
like, I'm the same person, but I'm looking different, and so they're 
getting treated differently. No one asked for senior discount. I 
always get senior discount now, which I like. I'm like, wow great. 
We do need it at least I need it. But we just chuckled at how he 
thought he was so unique. When we told him about— 
Raiskin: So radical.   
 
Campbell:  We were telling him how we had multiple partners. You just were 
all over the map. I think he like, “Okay,” and went off. I don't think 
he really bought into what we were saying that we did the same 
thing or similar things when we were younger. I think he more 
thought, you don't really know what I'm talking about. Maybe we 
don't, but maybe we do. I did have in terms of words of wisdom, 
because I was around a lot of high schoolers and especially lesbian, 
gay, transgender.  
 I'll be downtown and there'll be some, I've seen a number of the 
boys dressed up in drag come through. That's really neat. “Ms. 
Campbell!”  Where was I? Somewhere. Recently, just the gay kids. 
I'm really glad that even though I didn't want to do the GSA, I 
didn't want to be the token lesbian, I'm glad I did because wow, the 
connections I made with those kids still there. If I go to Gay Pride 
I'll see students there. More than my women's community I will see 
students.  
Raiskin: Is there anything else we haven't covered that you'd like to make 
sure you said?  
Campbell:  I did do the women's drumming group, and we were called 
Womyn at Play. As opposed  to men at work we were Womyn at 
Play. We had a sign like women at play look like men it was still a 
street sign. But I remember one of our struggles, one of the women 
did not want to spell it with a Y. We said W-O-M-Y-N Womyn. 
Didn't have a problem with, but one woman had a big problem.  
 
She goes, “Well, they'll think we're all lesbians. That's a lesbian way 
of spelling.” We're like, “What's wrong with that?” But she was so 
adamant of not spelling it. I think she was just so threatened of 
being seen as lesbian. But fortunately everybody was on board with 
it. She actually faded away and didn't feel connected to the group. 
She was so adamant about spelling it. W-O-M-E-N. We spelled it 
with a Y, and we got together, we did workshops at Mother Kali’s 
Books. It was way fun. We did a CD. Though I do Samba Ja so I still 
drum.  
Raiskin: Did you have connections with TranSister or Soromundi? 
Campbell:  Nuh-uh [negative]. 
Raiskin: Other music?  
Campbell:  I was around when Soromundi  was formed. My partner at the time 
was “caretaking” me, but I was wanting her to join a group on her 
own and have her own identity. I didn't join Soromundi. Had her 
join and it was really good for her— caretaking, again. There was 
another reason I didn't want the drama of a collective, lots of 
drama. I'm a Capricorn, working class. Drama's just not a good fit 
for me. Even in my family, we don't have high drama. My blood 
family. We got married, I have a partner now. We've been together 
twenty-five years and we do Twelve  Step. We're in a Twelve  Step 
group specifically for couples. Where we talk about couples issues, 
money, sex, child-rearing, housekeeping and stuff. We are actually 
putting on— we went to the convention in Sweden just a few  
 
weeks ago in August. We're putting on the international 
convention in Portland next summer in August.  
Raiskin: That's not a women's group, that's just couple of any kind?  
Campbell:  No, but when we came in there, it was so supportive because 
generally as a lesbian couple you're fighting this people who don't 
want you together. This energy of family members who don't like 
it. You go into recovering couple's anonymous and they're like, stay 
together. Here we're going to give you all these tools, stay together. 
It was really a good thing for us to get the reverse energy because 
we've been doing it for fifteen  years. To have that energy was 
exactly the reverse of what the world was doing.  
Raiskin: How was your family about it?  
Campbell:  I was really reluctant to come out to them, and I did in a letter. I 
just couldn't tell them.  
Raiskin: How old were you when you did that?  
Campbell:  I was probably about twenty, twenty-one. My partner—lover at the 
time we didn't have partners. My lover at the time, Martha, she was 
coming down to visit my family in Southern California. They were 
living in San Diego area. She said, “I will not come there. I will not 
sleep with you if you don't come out to your family.” I didn't. I 
couldn't do it. Then after that I'm like I wrote them a letter, dear 
family letter. They were like, as long as you're happy, that's what 
they told me. I'm sure it wasn't the ideal. But my oldest sister had a  
 
baby out of wedlock. My second sister ran away and started living 
with a guy. I had this ideal, like I was going to do it right, and then 
I was a lesbian. That's not right. I couldn't win. There was a lot of 
guilt there. Third child, lesbian.  
Raiskin: But they've all come to live with you.  
Campbell:  Yeah. My older sister eventually has a woman partner, never part 
of the whole women's movement, which I think is a whole different 
reality. But she's happy. She was married and had kids, but as soon 
as the kids graduate, boom, she dropped that and then start living 
with this woman. It's really good. They're all very supportive. Life 
is good. You have heard horror stories probably by, I remember a 
woman, she came out to her family and they cut off all 
communication with her and sold her cemetery plot.  
Long:  Was that a woman in the community?  
Campbell:  I think she was living down in Roseburg, but she was coming up 
here for the drum circles I think. But how extreme, people get cut 
off and— 
Raiskin: Or want you now with us or never.  
Campbell:  Never healed that wound. My mom always was very strong 
woman and my dad's family, he had four sisters and only one 
married and she was the boss of the house. All the women, my two 
aunts live together. They were all very strong women that had jobs 
and lives and traveled.   
 
Raiskin: They could have been in Full Moon Rising.  
Campbell:  Yes! They were nurses and teachers.  
Raiskin: Is there anything else that we haven't covered now?  
Campbell:  No, this is so emotionally healing. It's awesome.  
Long: Thank you so much.  
Raiskin: Thank you very much.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  