 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Susie Grimes on September 7, 2018 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies.  
 Susie, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project 
and that you give your permission for the university to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Grimes:  I do.   
Long:  Okay, thank you. Let's start with a basic question. Can you please 
tell us when and where you were born and something about your 
growing up years?  
Grimes:  Sure, I was born in Dayton, Ohio in 1954. My town was a small 
town outside of Dayton called Fairborn, and it was a conservative 
town at the time, Republican. Probably still is. So, I grew up pretty 
isolated from very many cultural influences, and as I got into high 
school— I was involved in sports all my life, but I fell in love with a 
woman in high school, and we were playing sports. We were both 
on basketball teams from different towns. We got in a fight on the 
court. I mean, literally. I got kicked out of the game, but there was 
something about her that I really liked, and at that time, girls’ 
sports were pretty subjugated. We had to play in the elementary 
school gym and we had to walk across a playground— well, it was 
more than a playground. It was a field with snow— in our gym 
suits to go practice in the elementary school gym. That's how it was 
for us.  
 But, after our games, we would get together for punch and cookies. 
Imagine a contentious game like that, both of our teams are the best 
in our leagues, we were the best athletes on our teams, and we got 
in a fight. And, what was the first thing that happened after the 
game, we went straight to each other and started talking, and 
eventually became lovers in high school and  kept it a secret  all that 
time, of course. That's when I knew I was gay.  
Raiskin:  Was it surprising to you to get involved with a girl?   
Grimes:  Yes and no. I had a boyfriend at the time. He was a basketball 
player, too. It was a fine relationship but then, I don't know, this 
was different. And, it took a long time for Sherry and I to realize 
"Oh, that's what's going on. We want to be together." It was 
surprising but not, because it felt right.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any knowledge about lesbianism or had you heard 
anything about it?  
Grimes:  In that time, I didn't even know people were gay, really. We played 
“Smear the Queer” but I didn't know what that meant. No, I didn't 
really know anything about it. And, like I said, I grew up in really 
protected environment. I never ate rice until I left Ohio. I know it's 
crazy, but things like that, that I look back on now and go, "Wow, 
that's amazing that you found Sherry, and that we found each other 
and that you cultivated a lesbian relationship in that environment." 
It was 1971, I guess.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any negative feelings about it?  
Grimes:  I didn't but my mom knew what was going on. I didn't know she 
knew, but she knew and she asked me to go to a psychiatrist, and I 
thought, Well, you're the one that needs a psychiatrist.  Because, she 
had some mental health issues. Anyway, I did and it was horrible. 
It was a terrible experience. The woman was a chain smoker. She 
asked me really stupid questions like, "Well, you don't want to be 
like your mother then. Is that why you're with a woman?" I just 
went once. I also knew my mom was trying to help me because she  
told me, she said, "Susie, it's going to be hard later. If this is what 
you choose to do or if this is who you are, I'm okay with it but it's 
going  to be a hard life."  
Raiskin:  Were either of your parents religious? Or were you raised in any 
religious tradition?  
Grimes:  My father was not religious. My mom was Christian. She was a 
Lutheran, and we were taken to Bible school, Sunday school, all of 
those things growing up until we got old enough to make it our 
own choices.  
Raiskin:  Do you think her negative attitude was religiously based or just 
fear of how you'd be in society?  
Grimes:  Yeah, I don't think it was a negative attitude. I think it was actually 
an accepting attitude where the conservative town I grew up in was 
also near Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, which is very 
liberal. So, we also had some of that influence, which she did also. 
Her friends were from that liberal area, so when she approached 
me about my gay lifestyle, which we didn't call it gay or lesbian or 
anything, I think it was more protection for what she was afraid I 
was going to have to experience.  
Raiskin:  Did you have thoughts about going to college after high school?  
Grimes:  I went to one quarter at Wright State University in Dayton, and 
realized that was not for me. I was just too restless. A friend of 
mine from Fairborn was going to the University of Oregon, and she  
was home visiting for Christmas break, and she said, "Susie , would 
you like to give me a ride back to Oregon?" I had a Volkswagen van 
and, of course, I had been touring around with my tie-dye curtains 
and 8-track tape player in my VW van. I was a hippie, for sure. By 
the way, so Sherry had moved to Iowa  because she got a track 
scholarship at Iowa State, one of the few schools at the time that 
had athletic scholarships for women, so she was gone.  
Raiskin:  How did the separation work out?  
Grimes:  Well, she moved away with her mother to Iowa. We were eighteen. 
She was seventeen  or something. We carried on a five-year-long 
distance relationship, but it was painful, and then when my friend 
said, "Want to go to Oregon?", I said, "Yes," and miraculously 
enough, my parents gave me a gas credit card and said, "Okay, you 
can go." They thought I was coming back, but I never did.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about Eugene, Oregon before you came out 
here?  
Grimes:  I knew nothing. I knew nothing about it. I just knew it was going to 
be great to hit the road and take my friend back to Oregon, and I 
guess I thought I was coming back to Ohio, too, but when I got 
here, it was 1973. I was nineteen  years old. I had never lived 
outside of my home. I've traveled in my van a bit, but I always 
came back, and Eugene was rocking. It was an amazing place. I 
lived in a household with some hippies, and we would sit on the 
front porch and smoke dope and listen to the Grateful Dead. You  
can imagine. Trees everywhere, the smell of the air here, the rivers. 
I mean, I couldn't believe I'd be driving along a road and there's a 
waterfall. You'd go to the coast, there's no one there. I didn't see the 
ocean until I think I was sixteen  years old. So, to be here 
somewhere where you could just drive an hour to the coast and 
have it to yourself, it  was fabulous.  
 I didn't eat seafood, because we had fish sticks in Ohio, but I came 
to really enjoy the bounty of the sea, if you will. But, the people— 
the culture here, I couldn't have even imagined it. This is 
embarrassing to admit, but when I got  to vote at eighteen  years old, 
I voted for Richard Nixon. I admit it. I'm certainly not a Republican 
now, and haven't been, but that's how I grew up. And, I lived near 
an Air Force base. It was Wright-Patterson Air Force base where 
the anti-Vietnam war protests were happening in my own 
backyard. I didn't even know it. You know how I found out, 
actually? I skipped school one day with my friends and drove past 
the field, and there were all these people in the streets with signs. 
I'm like, "Theresa, what's that?" She goes, "I think it's a protest."  
 That's how out of it I was, so to come here to Eugene, and to meet 
people that saw the world in a different way was really refreshing 
to me, and I wanted to get to know it and be part of it.  
Raiskin:  You didn't feel scared or threatened by a completely different 
worldview?   
Grimes:  Heck no. No, not at all. No, I embraced it. I guess I thought I fit in 
because I had bell bottom blue jeans and I had long hair and I was a 
hippie, so I guess I looked like I fit in but  it took a long time to fit 
in, actually. During that time, I was looking for my social group. I 
was looking for the lesbians, I guess, but I couldn't find them. It 
took a while. It was easier to find alternative people, and eventually 
within those businesses even— we had so many collective 
businesses in Eugene. I mean, I made myself a list. Mama's Home 
Fried Truck Stop, which was a café here near campus. Mother 
Kali’s Bookstore, which is a feminist bookstore. We had the Lincoln 
Street Food Co-op. Natural food, what's that? That was awesome. 
We had a tool library, where people could just come in, give your 
name and borrow a tool, and then bring it back. You didn't have to 
pay. It was a tool library.  
 We had an energy bank. What's an energy bank? Well, okay you 
have a skill, you fill out a card, you put it in the bank. You have 
one, I have one. You go to the bank. You need something, "Oh, I 
need a professor in gender studies to look at my thesis." I'm 
exaggerating, but "I need a mechanic to teach me how to do a tune-
up." That's more likely. "I need a house painter, but I can haul 
gravel in my truck." And, people bartered. It was— 
Long:  It was called energy bank?  
Grimes:  Energy bank. Yeah, it was— 
Long:  Where was it? Where was—  
Grimes:  I don't know if it was at the Growers Market Building perhaps, or 
in somebody's house next— I don't remember actually. It was in the 
Whiteaker  area somewhere. It was cool. Genesis Juice Cooperative, 
fresh juice. Starflower, which was a women's natural food's 
distributor, and they had semis, they had a warehouse, they had 
forklifts. It was all women. Really amazing. And, we had 
Gertrude's Café, which was a lesbian café. We had Zoo Zoo’s, 
which was a hippie café. We had Garbagio's. Garbagio's, which was 
a collective garbage company where they would drive around. You 
would sign up for their service, and they'd come and they'd take— 
I think they even did some recycling then. Maybe it was the first.  
 Then, of course, Country Volkswagen, which I was a part of and 
Hoedads, which I was a part of. So, it was an amazing culture here. 
It was an amazing opportunity to make a new identity, I guess, for 
me.  
Raiskin:  How did you find the lesbians?  
Grimes:  I decided well, I guess I should I make myself useful and go to 
college. I came to the U of O for two quarters. I really came because 
I wanted to play basketball. I played on the team and I took a 
Women's Studies class. I thought, "Well, I'll find some lesbians 
there. It's Women's Studies." Well, you know, I didn't really fit in. It 
was intimidating. It was academic, and I was not academic at all. I 
mean, I passed. I could hold my own, but it was not my scene then. 
Raiskin:  Do you remember who taught it?   
Grimes:  Olga Broumas. Of course, if I had stayed with it, maybe my life 
would have taken another path. I wonder those things. Everyone 
wonders, I guess. But, I didn't. I dropped out, and I looked for 
work and I found the forestry cooperative, which was Hoedads. I 
joined a crew, and I went out and worked really hard planting 
trees, and I— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe that a little bit more?  
Long:  Yeah, can you describe the Hoedads?  
Grimes:  Yeah. I also want to talk about the Riviera Room because that was 
actually before Hoedads and that's where I met the lesbians.  
Raiskin:  All right, tell us about that first and then— 
Grimes:  Okay, so I had a girlfriend and we used to go to the Riviera Room. 
When I found out, "Oh, there's a gay bar in town. Oh, we're going 
there." Well, we were under age, so we were sitting in the bar one 
night at one of the booths, and the police used to come in there. The 
police came in and asked us for our IDs, and we got arrested and 
hauled away. It was really traumatic. They weren't mean or 
anything, but it felt like harassment. Well, I guess it was but still, 
we were breaking the law. We didn't go in there for a while. But 
then later on, I was in the Riviera Room later and— I'm painting 
the picture as Eugene as the ideal environment, but believe me, it 
was a mixed bag. There were a lot of people that hated gay people 
in this town. There was a logging culture, and I'm not blaming 
loggers but there was a conservative element that didn't like what  
was happening to "their" town, and there was hostility and anger, 
and I became the victim of that at the gay bar one night.  
 I was sitting at the bar and this gentleman was sitting next to me. 
The bar was across the street from the bus station, so he was en  
route back down to southern Oregon. It was a friendly place. 
People were friendly to each other, but he was just understanding 
where he was when he started talking to me, and he was pissed. He 
started to pick a fight with me at the bar. I don't know what I said, 
but he threw his beer in my face and I was really mad, and then he 
got up and walked away and I took my glass and I threw it on the 
ground next to him. That was my aggression. He picked up the cue 
ball off the pool table and threw it at me like a baseball and it hit 
me here in the face. It dislocated my nose and laid me out.  
 What happened? He tried to run out of the  bar, and my friends 
tackled him and held him there until the police came. So, that was 
cool but that was a hate crime before there were hate crimes. I had 
to have medical. I had to go to the hospital. Anyway, when I went 
to talk to the district attorney, what did he say? He said, "You 
shouldn't have been in that place. This was nothing but a bar room 
fight." So, no charges were pressed. I have to say there's another 
element to the ideal community that was being created, so there's 
both sides. So, I found the lesbians in the gay bar not in the 
women's studies class.  
Raiskin:  What kind of music did they play at the Riviera Room?   
Grimes:  I don't know. Was that the disco era, the 70's? There was a lot of 
dancing, a lot of frolicking, a lot of fun. People would go there and 
feel free, and yes, there was also a lot of open relationships at that 
time, so a lot of people experimenting with that. I was part of that, 
too. That culture.  
Raiskin:  Did people talk about sex a lot?  
Grimes:  Later, I think. In the ‘80's, they talked about more stuff like S&M 
and butch/fem stuff. I don't remember it being in the 70's as much. 
It was more dancing, drinking, swapping partners, having fun 
three ways, that kind of thing.  
Raiskin:  Then, for work you found Hoedads?  
Grimes: Yeah. I found the Hoedads, and I was on a mixed crew for a year, 
and then I heard that a women's crew was going to get started. I 
went to the meeting, and at that time, OWL Farm in southern 
Oregon, which is Oregon Women's Land Trust, had been up and 
running for a few years. I had also heard about that. The women's 
crew was called Full Moon Rising, and Oregon Women's Land 
Trust were very, I would say, outside the norm of lesbianism, the 
lesbian culture because those experiences were— the people 
involved in  both of those groups, including myself, were very 
maybe— I don't know how to say it— experimental. We were 
trying to create a matriarchal society and living separatist lifestyles, 
meaning trying to limit or exclude the amount of contact with 
males, with men, and the patriarchy as much as possible.   
 It was needed. It was a time where the women's movement, there 
was a lot of conflict in society. We were getting sick and tired of 
being oppressed and looked down upon, even in the collectives, 
even within the alternative cultures, the cooperatives. There was 
still a lot of oppression towards women, and we were just going to 
create our own and that's what we did. Yes, it was very idealistic. 
There was some great things about it like safety, and we had 
feelings meetings. We would talk everything out. If anybody had a 
problem, take it to the group. Everything was group oriented, just 
like many other societies are. Not so individualistic. I learned a lot. 
Everyone learned a lot about ourselves and about how to maybe  be 
different in society. What are our values? Our values are more 
around group process and not individual, not what am I going to 
gain out of this.  
 For example, when we started Full Moon Rising, it was the 
thirteenth  crew of Hoedads and any women were invited to come 
and be part of the crew. You get paid if you work. You don't get 
paid by the number of trees you plant. You don't have somebody 
planting out and taking the line and going for the gravy and 
putting all the money in their own pockets. No. We bump it out, we 
cover the ground, we work it together and the crew gets paid and 
then you get paid by how much time you put in.  
Raiskin:  And, is that different than the other crews?  
Grimes:  The other crews would be paid by the tree for the most part. I will 
say there were probably some other crews that did partial sharing.  
Maybe there was another cooperative crew like ours. I don't think 
so, but ours was strictly.  
Raiskin:  Who were the contracts with and what trees were you planting, 
and what was that about? 
Grimes:  During that era, there was a lot of logging going on in the national 
forests and the BLM land. The Forest Service had to contract out to 
workers who would replant the forests. We would plant Douglas 
fir trees, little seedlings that are about that big. You'd carry around 
a belt and a pouch, and you'd carry bundles of trees. You had this 
big long tool, it's about this long, with a blade like that. It's heavy. 
And, you're working in the woods and it's rainy because you can't 
plant in the summer or the nice weather. No, you have to plant in 
the winter. It's cold and rainy and muddy. And, you're on slashed 
out units where they've logged and there's piles of slash. You're 
climbing over logs. It's very hard work. It's strenuous, and 
sometimes the slopes are steep.  
 Sometimes, they're less steep but the work is bid by the 
cooperative. Each crew has a bidder, and the bidders go to the 
meetings. There were some women in leadership positions in the 
Hoedads, but it was mostly men. But our crew, of course, always 
had a female going in to represent us and bid our work, and then 
they would decide out what crews are doing what units. Some of 
the crews got the better units and contracts, and the newer crews 
had to eat it up—  
Raiskin:  Was that based on productivity?  
Grimes:  I think what it was based on was what's the volume of work and 
who are the fast crews, who are the slow crews, let's get a mix in 
there who can cover it because you had deadlines. And also, you're 
being checked on your work. There are Forest Service— I forget 
what they're called, but every time a crew's out there working, 
there's somebody checking your work. They'll go up and they'll go 
out and they'll dig just random trees that have been planted and see 
if they have a J root. The root has to be planted straight down. If 
you plant a J root, that's bad.  
Long:  Because?  
Grimes:  Because then the tree won't grow. It'll die and the forest won't grow 
back. So, there's quality control. And, the forest service people 
would always, I think, shudder when they got our crew because we 
would be out there singing. Some of the planters were slow and 
taking our time. Then, some of the women would go topless if it 
was hot, and they were so embarrassed. Oh, I'm sure we were the 
talk of the Forest Service, but we didn't care. We were out there on 
the slopes. We would ride to work in the morning in the crummy 
singing with our coffee or tea. I mean, it was joyous.  
Raiskin:  How many of you were there?  
Grimes:  There were probably— I forget. I think the capacity of the crummy 
would be about fifteen. There were some people who would 
always stay in camp. We paid people to stay in camp and cook for  
the whole crew, go shopping so when we got home, we would eat 
in the yurt. We had yurts. We had two yurts. They were mobile, so 
we would travel from contract to contract. Some people would 
sleep in the yurts. We would come home from work and there 
would be a hot meal. We'd sit around and sing some more, or have 
feelings meetings and process, and that went on until the work was 
done. And then, we moved to the next contract.  
Long:  Whereabouts? Excuse me, whereabouts did you work?  
Grimes:  We were all over Oregon. We were up in Detroit, Ranger District. 
We were down south in Jacksonville area. We had a peyote circle 
up there one time after all the planting was done, and that was very 
magical and spiritual. The experience was political, spiritual, 
emotional, mental, physical. The whole thing. It was, I think, a 
fascinating time. Some of the women changed their names to get 
rid of  the patriarchal connotations.  
Raiskin:  Were people involved with each other romantically as well?  
Grimes:  There was a lot of partner sharing, and that was a little bit 
damaging I would say. For me, anyway, because you're expected 
to— we were expected at that time to be part of that lesbian 
separatist collective culture, to be open about everything, including 
your money, your clothing, your car, your lover relationships. And, 
we did. Some didn't as much, some did more than others, but that 
was the expectation. It was part of the time era.  
Raiskin:  Did that fit well for you at that time?   
Grimes:  No, because I don't really like having sex with somebody that I'm 
not in love with, even though I did and a lot of people did. It was 
experimental. So, no it didn't work for me so well, but I learned 
from it. I'm not damaged by it or anything, but I learned later no, 
that's not for me. Also, once as I said, I was raised in a more 
conservative environment so this was a big stretch for me growing 
up in this era and especially in the lesbian separatist deal. It came to 
a head for me, I bought a house in Eugene to become the city 
version of OWL Farm. So, we needed a place in town because 
women were coming up from the country to be part of the crew, 
and we needed a place to crash and clean up  and cook and all of 
that. With my money, I bought a house and I felt like, well,  I can't 
own this house because that's very capitalist, so I put the house in 
my friend's name as well. She was from OWL Farm.  
Raiskin:  Where did you have the money to buy a house? 
Grimes:  I was given money for college by my grandparents, so I cashed 
something in. It was not that much money as we look at it now. The 
house cost $30,000. I put a down payment down, but for me, that 
was my house but it really wasn't my house. It was the collective's 
house. I was okay with it, but then something really horrible 
happened to me when I was in Hoedads. I had a terrible accident in 
1978, years later after the tree planting crew. I had been part of that 
for a while. We were looking for new work, the Hoedads. We were 
looking for cone picking jobs. Contracts were coming out from the 
forest service, and what they needed were seedlings from the best  
trees, so they would select trees that were straight and tall. They 
wanted the seeds from those trees.  
 Why couldn't they wait until they got to the ground? Because, then 
the cones would open up. The seeds weren't viable. So, they 
wanted to pay people to climb up into the trees and pick the cones 
to get the seeds. I had been a mountain climber and a backpacker 
and a rock climber, and when I heard about that new line of work, I 
wanted to get in on it because I was certainly able to do it and I 
wanted to. I went with one of my friends from Hoedads, a man, 
who was spearheading this new line of work for the cooperative. 
We went down to the Rogue River area to look at— Well, it's called 
a “Show Me,” so it's a meeting with the Forest service to talk about 
what are the stipulations of the contracts, where do these trees lie, 
how many do you have to climb, how much are they going to pay 
you? Everything you need to know to bid a contract.  
 Then, afterwards, we went to look at some of the trees, and Vernon 
had brought his equipment. I had never done it before, but I had 
done a lot of climbing so I was excited. The Forest Service 
gentleman left and Vernon and I were there, and I was going to 
learn to climb with ropes and spurs. So he  said, "Well, put on your 
spurs. Here's how you do it. You've got a belt. You've probably 
seen it before. You spur into the tree and flip up. Spur, flip up." To 
the top of a 200 foot tree with a rope so that I can belay down. So, 
I'm in the top of the tree really, and the wind is swaying, and I'm 
looking down over the Rogue River Valley, and birds are flying  
below me. I'm like, "What am I doing up here? This is so cool, but 
scary."  
 Until then, I hadn't been scared because I was climbing up. So now, 
I'm like, "Okay, I better get down." I start climbing down, climbing 
down and I'm ready to set my belay. I'm at the top branch, the 
branch furthest climbing up. It's eighty  feet from the ground where  
I'm going to set my belay. So,  I set it, and the braking method is to 
wrap that rope around your spur and then just let yourself down. 
No safety equipment. That's it. It's called marine belay and that's 
what we had. That's what he was instructing me to do from the 
ground. I did it and I started coming down. Well, I had rigged my 
rope wrong and a branch broke and I fell straight down seventy  
feet and landed on my feet, and fell into a puddle under the tree.  
 We were far from phones. We're off the road. I had broken my back 
and was paralyzed from the waist down. Both ankles exploded. 
They were compound fractures. No, I was not knocked out and I 
did not get knocked out so it was horrible. He was able to flag 
somebody down that was passing by at that time. It was in the 
national forest. You're lucky when a car goes by at all. Got 
somebody to go back to the nearest payphone and call and 
ambulance in Gold Beach. It took two hours to get to me, and long 
story short, it took twelve  hours to get to a hospital by two 
ambulance rides and a helicopter, and then another ambulance 
ride. I was in the hospital for three months at Sacred Heart. It  
became an issue because this was a bad accident and the 
cooperative was stunned and scared, and abandoned me.  
Long:  The Hoedads Cooperative?  
Grimes:  Yeah, mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yeah, they didn't want to talk about 
my accident. I won't go into detail but it— 
Raiskin:  Was there a Workman's Compensation or some support for 
accident?  
Grimes:  No, because we were a cooperative business, and at that time we 
were not required to comply with Worker's Comp. Now those rules 
changed but at that time, it was a corporate structure that had a 
different tax liability, had different state worker requirements and 
since then, has been revised, but no, there was no coverage and no 
compensation.  
Raiskin:  So, did they abandon you for fear of legal reasons or was it 
emotional?  
Grimes:  I don't really know. I think it was legal. And, I'm not saying— I did 
have some visitors from Hoedads come see me, but that's not who 
got me through. At the time, I was living in our OWL Farm home-
in-town, and women were coming from OWL Farm and they were 
bringing me wheat grass juice and they wanted to kidnap me from 
the hospital and take me to heal me at OWL Farm. Thank God they 
didn't.  
Long:  Can you say who some of those women were?   
Grimes:  Ruby, Seagull, Sapphire, Coyote, Moon, Pelican, Donna. Those 
were some of the  women.  
Raiskin:  So, they stuck by you.  
Grimes:  They stuck by me. They were my troop. And, my family, which— 
so, this was the hard part. This is when I became not a separatist 
anymore. When my brother came from Arizona to be by my side, 
and I asked him to please go to my house and get me certain things, 
and he went to my house and they wouldn't let him in because we 
were a separatist household, and that broke my heart and changed 
my point of view. I changed.  
Raiskin:  So, how did your recovery go?  
Grimes:  Being a lesbian in the hospital for that long, that also had its 
difficulties, to say the least. There were nurses that wouldn't treat 
me. There were physical therapists that wouldn't treat me, and I 
know this because I talked to the social worker years later. I went 
back. I just needed validation because looking back on it, no, I 
wasn't thinking about that then. I was thinking, "Oh my God, I'm 
paralyzed. Oh, I just need to get up." I just needed to, like my dad 
would say, "Wash your face and get back to—" No, I couldn't. I was 
paralyzed and didn't know if it was going to be permanent for the 
rest of my life. I didn't know, but it was pretty clear I was a lesbian 
from the people that were coming to visit me and putting crystals 
in my room, and doing hands on and meditations and hypnosis,  
and every type of healing medium that was allowable that we 
wouldn't get kicked out of  the hospital for. So, that was  outrageous.  
Raiskin:  Did that kind of healing bring you comfort?  
Grimes:  Yes. I truly believe it's one of the reasons why I can walk now, that I 
received many different types of healing processes like, like I said, 
hypnosis. A woman came, a lesbian came to my room and asked 
me if I wanted to do this. I said, "Yes," so we did, and she asked me 
to imagine my brain as the sun, and that's all it took. I imagined the 
electrical energy coming from my brain, traveling down my spinal 
cord all the way to my toes, which I couldn't feel, but every day 
then. Every day, I trained my nerves to come back. Yeah, and a 
medical doctor, a neurologist, would say, "Susie—"  
Raiskin:  What do they attribute your healing to?  
Grimes:  It was an incomplete spinal cord injury, which it was.  
Raiskin:  What other kind of healing things did you— 
Grimes:  I went to the Philippines for psychic surgery. Did that help? Yes. 
My dad paid for it. He saw me on the plane when I left, and when I 
got back and he, "Susie, that really helped you. I'm really 
surprised."  
Raiskin:  What is psychic surgery?  
Grimes:  Psychic surgery is something that is practiced in other countries, 
including the Philippines where I went. There, many people use it.  
I went with a group from southern Oregon, a group of people that 
needed medical intervention where western medicine wasn't 
helping  them. It was a crapshoot for me. I said, "I'll just try it." And, 
at the time, I was in severe pain. I was walking very minimally 
with Canadian crutches and a brace. Psychic surgery is practiced in 
a clinic where people are in the waiting room waiting  their turn. 
You go in, and they don't charge. You give what you want and you 
lay on a table, and— It sounds fantastical and it is, and I couldn't 
see it, but my partner was with me and she saw it, and she swears 
by it, where the trained person actually enters your body with their 
fingers and pulls things out.  
 For me, it was in my spine. I was laying on my stomach and I could 
feel like a rubber band snapping off my spine. It kind of hurt. 
Adhesions. They said they were taking out adhesions. I don't know 
if that's what helped me, but the other therapy that I got there 
which was this intense— and, I also had this same kind of therapy 
with a Native American healer, a Navajo healer in Arizona, where 
they would take their fingers and go down my legs and cause them 
to bleed, and then rub a healing ointment that they made. In 
Arizona, it was different than in the Philippines, but it was a 
similar technique. Just different ointments, and it hurt really bad 
but I did come back with much more mobility and less pain. It's 
miraculous.  
Raiskin:  Who was your partner at the time?  
Grimes:  My partner at the time was Donna Lopes.   
Raiskin:  So, she stuck with you through all this?  
Grimes:  She did. She did. She was a great partner, and then we had an open 
relationship and she became involved with somebody else and I 
didn't like it so I became involved with somebody else and we went 
our separate ways as was the ways then.  
Raiskin:  When you left the hospital, did you go back to your house?  
Grimes:  Yeah, I went back to my house. I had a ramp built. Crescent 
Construction, add them to the list. Nancy Shutt built my ramp for 
me, and I was using a wheelchair at the time. The physical therapy 
had just opened at Sacred Heart. There was really not very good 
training. I was sent home without a wheelchair and I crawled 
around my house until somebody said, "Susie, don't you need a 
wheelchair?" I'm like, "Yeah." So, I had outpatient therapy, they 
gave me a wheelchair, and didn't teach me how to drive. I had to 
pick up my legs to step on the brake. It was probably really 
dangerous, but I didn't have hand controls or anything, but I made 
do. And, my household, we were still a collective household. We 
were tight. We were having our feelings meetings. There's a lot to 
that. That's a whole other hour interview.  
Long:  I'd like to go back to your description of the Hoedads, and you 
talked about the Forest Service rangers having an opinion or 
feelings about the women's crew. What was the relationship of Full 
Moon Rising crew with the other Hoedad crews?   
Grimes:  That's a great question. Even within Hoedads, you had more— 
They're not conservative, but they're more conservative than— 
There's a spectrum. The crews that were more embracing of the 
women's crew, a lot of people didn't like us. We were political, we 
were bossy, we were kind of edgy and didn't take any shit, and 
maybe considered to be antagonistic probably. Then, there were 
crews we would get along with like the Log Rollers or the PF 
Flyers, and probably because of the women on those crews. Some 
crews liked us and we would plant together, and some crews we 
just would ignore each other. We did have a couple times a year, it 
was called a Women's Glom where there was a contract and the 
word would go out, "Okay, only women planting  on this contract 
for a week." We'd do that and of course, our whole crew was there, 
but then women from other crews would come and join us.  
 It was really fun. That was a great experience, and I think that 
helped those women to understand a little bit  more about lesbian 
culture and not be intimidated because I think— you're the experts, 
but during that era, the women's movement— there was a lot of 
friction between lesbians and feminists, and I think we helped to 
soothe that a little bit.  
Raiskin:  Did any of the women from the other crews move over to— 
Grimes:  One or two. One or two, not too many. Actually, not everyone on 
our crew was a lesbian, but I'd say 90%. Yeah, a few women joined 
us, and then sadly, after a year or two, Full Moon Rising became 
tainted, I would say. Tainted. There were some women that came  
into the crew that started to really question, "Well, why should you 
get paid the same as me? I plant twice as many trees as you." That 
gained momentum and they changed the way they structured the 
crew and paid each other, and to me, that ruined it.  
Raiskin:  Did it have a detrimental effect on the work itself? On how people 
interacted with each other?  
Grimes:  You know, I wasn't part of the crew then. I quit, but I would say 
that was the beginning  of the end of the women's crew. Some 
people might not agree, but I think so because then it wasn't like 
we're all in this together. In fact, they changed their name to Half 
and Half. Half and Half. Half share, half by the tree, so that was 
their compromise. No, I don't have any bitter feelings.  
Raiskin:  So, it was less about identity, the name, then the economics of it?  
Grimes:  That's what it became for them, and I think probably some of the 
women from the original crew that continued with Half and Half 
were not happy either, but they go outvoted or whatever. Yeah, 
that was a disappointment. There are some disappointments about 
that idealistic era, being part of a cooperative that we're all in this 
together and we're going to change society, being part of a 
matriarchal village that we're going to have to be able to live 
without oppression. For a short period of time, we did. I  don't 
regret any at all. Any of that time or that era because wow, it's 
made me the person I am today and I'm happy, and I have 
continued to carry those values of equality and compassion and  
openness, and my work for social justice issues as a career for 
people with disabilities in other countries, and it's been an 
incredible profession for me.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us how you got into that, and where you were 
working?  
Grimes:  Sure, yeah. How are we doing?  
Raiskin:  Good.  
Long:  Actually, before we launch into that, I'm just wondering. It's been 
like forty  years or so since you were a tree planter. When you're 
around Oregon, can you look up and look at a mountain and think 
you planted those trees that are full now?  
Grimes:  Yeah.  
Long:  Wow, that must be a great feeling.  
Grimes:  Yeah, I can drive right to where we used to park the crummy off 
the side of the road, where the yurts were set up, where we would 
jump in the river to clean off in the middle of winter. We were 
hearty. And, where we would drive up to the units. Yeah, it's a 
good feeling.  
Raiskin:  There's a forest now that you planted.  
Grimes:  Yeah, yeah. After I became disabled, I couldn't be a tree planter 
anymore or a cone picker. I was still trying to figure out if this was 
going to be permanent or what. What's this new lifestyle all about?  
It was hard, to say the least, but I got a phone call from out of the 
blue, a woman named Susan Sygall, who's a woman with a 
disability who lives in town. She goes, "Well, you don't know me 
but I got your name from the physical therapist and I heard you're 
athletic. Do you want to be on a women's wheelchair basketball 
team?" I said, "Huh? Wheelchair basketball? What's that? Okay."  
 So, we formed a women's wheelchair basketball team. Susan and 
myself and a few other women at the time. I don't know if Alicia 
Hays was on the beginning team. I think she came a little bit later 
because she was younger, but April Carney, and we played with 
the men. There was a men's team at the time, so we  had someone to 
teach us. I think actually the team was started by a professor at the 
U of O with Susan, who was a student, a rec student, and one of her 
teachers, I believe, in recreation therapy, started the team. And, 
wow, that changed my life again because I'm an athlete, I'm a 
basketball player and I just loved it. I went on to have an 
international Paralympic  career in wheelchair basketball for fifteen  
years. I've traveled to other countries. I've been on six, I think, US 
teams. I have two gold medals, two silver medals in the 
Paralympics.  
 It was part of my lifestyle for fifteen  years. I ended up moving to 
the Bay area so I could have more opportunities in wheelchair 
sports. And, we had a lesbian wheelchair basketball team down 
there, but here in Eugene, there was some lesbians on the team, not 
very many, but it introduced me to disability culture, so now I've  
got lesbian culture, alternative culture, disability culture that was 
all just mixed together for me.  
Raiskin:  What year was this when you joined the team?  
Grimes:  My accident was in 1978, so I think it must have been 1979 or 
maybe 1980.  
Raiskin:  What was the name of the team?  
Grimes:  The name of the women's wheelchair basketball team was the 
Shooting Stars. It was a great name. We had a great following. I 
don't remember even who we played— Oh, there was a women's 
team in Sacramento and one in the Bay area. That was our closest 
competitors. I think we mainly played exhibition games against 
able-bodied people that would get in wheelchairs because it cost 
money to travel, and there was just nobody else to play. We had 
great crowds come out, and we were on TV, and we did 
fundraisers. It was fabulous. It was great, meaning that to get out 
there and to be able to use your body, even though it was half your 
body, and just give it your all and wreck into each other and be 
aggressive. People would fly out of their wheelchairs, and 
everybody would be, "Ooh, uh." But, no, it was like, "Oh, just stop 
the game. I'll get back in."  
 Some people would need help to get back in. Others of us could 
just haul your body back up. Because, according to where your 
spinal cord injury is makes a difference on how much paralysis you 
have and how much strength you can gain back. Mine was lower in  
the lumbar region, which means my lower extremities but not my 
trunk was involved, so I was classified— on a wheelchair 
basketball team, you're classified, actually. You get a number. In 
the international system, it goes from one to four. In the U.S. 
system, it's one to three. I was a three, meaning least disabled. Your 
team had to have a mix of ones, twos and threes so that it couldn't 
be dominated just by people who had less involved disability.  
Raiskin:  And, you said you got involved with other disability rights issues?  
Grimes:  Right, so after I moved, I lived in the Bay area playing basketball 
and coaching rugby for quadriplegics and soccer for people in 
power wheelchairs. That was my sports career and my training.  I 
moved back to Eugene because I missed the lifestyle here. I missed 
my friends, and when I came back, I reconnected with Susan Sygall 
who had started a non-profit organization in 1981 called Mobility 
International USA. It's an organization that provides leadership 
training for people with disabilities around the world. I wanted to 
play basketball still, and "Susan, you want to play ball?" "Well, 
Susie, I'm doing this now." So, I got involved teaching sports 
workshops  for their inbound groups. They would bring people 
from different countries here to Eugene, Oregon. People with all 
different types of disabilities. In fact, that's the mission, is to have a 
cross-disability group.  
 My job early on was to teach sports. At that time, I don't remember 
anybody really talking about gay issues. We were talking about 
disability issues, so there was a lot of work to be done in terms of  
justice and human rights for people with disabilities then and now, 
still. We were the beginning of that internationally. We were in the 
frontier of that. We're talking about basic human rights like being 
able to have a job, go to school, have a partner, have healthcare, get 
out of your house, have language like sign language. These are still 
struggles that are very real across the world now, and then, we 
were getting people that were at the forefront of disability rights 
movements in other countries coming here to Eugene for three 
weeks for leadership training.  
 And, really, all it took was getting together. Just like in the lesbian 
experience, you just need us to get in a room together and we start 
talking, and we start sharing and it just builds momentum. It was 
the same sort of dynamic, so I became involved in that right away. 
One of my first, in fact, sports workshops, was to teach wheelchair 
basketball to a group from El Salvador, and they were disabled 
from their civil war. We had people from different sides of the issue 
that had fought against each other, so now disability was bringing 
them together, so it was pretty fascinating. Very fascinating.  
Raiskin:  Then, Mobility International won an MacArthur Genius Award at 
some point.  
Grimes:  Susan won the award. Susan won the MacArthur Award some 
years ago, yes, for the pioneering work.  
Raiskin:  How did your job change in MIUSA? What— all the things were 
you doing there?   
Grimes:  Well, I've worked there for almost twenty-five years. At the 
beginning, I started with the sports workshop, and then I started 
taking groups outbound to other countries. I traveled to I don't 
know how many countries taking leadership groups. Over fifteen. 
And then, we started a Women's Institute on Leadership and 
Disability, so we started having women's programs coming to 
Eugene, and through that work, we had many women from 
developing countries come that where the early groups were more 
I would say middle- and upper-income countries, but as we started 
to get grant funding to support sponsorships, scholarships for 
women to come, we were outreaching to developing countries like 
African countries. We started learning about their issues there and 
that our foreign aid is not complying with our own domestic laws, 
the ADA, Americans with Disabilities Act. This is where our work 
needs to be now is to impact foreign aid so that it also reaches 
people with disabilities in the countries where we are working, 
where we're giving aid.  
 That's where we started working with the USAID, and we had a 
ten year grant to help foreign agencies, missions, to work with U.S. 
embassies in other countries and donor organizations that were 
getting big grants from USAID  to be inclusive, to be disability 
inclusive. So, that became my work and still is my work, and my 
work most recently is now working on legislation in other countries 
for persons with disabilities so that they can have their own 
domestic laws that are lined up with what we have now are 
international conventions for the rights of people with disabilities.  
The work has gone from pioneering in the ‘80s where it wasn't on 
the radar till now, we have international conventions and domestic 
governments that are getting their laws passed and learning how to 
implement them.  
Raiskin:  Is there any overlap of the disability rights community that you 
were in and the lesbian community you were in?  
Grimes:  When I moved to the Bay area, I met a number of disabled lesbians. 
In Eugene, there are a few and were a few then, but the population 
is small here, so when I went to the Bay area, I knew a lot. That was 
where the overlap began for me to mix the disability culture and 
gay culture. That was— 
Raiskin:  What does that mean? A mix of two cultures— 
Grimes:  They're separate. They were separate. Maybe they still are. A lot of 
able-bodied lesbians don't know anything about disability still, and 
a lot of disabled people don't know about gay culture, so there's a 
gap but when they intersect, then you have these issues that are 
only germane to your group. What would that be like? Well, like 
sexuality is impacted by disability. Maybe some of the oppression 
that we experience as lesbians, like I said, I was gay bashed in a gay 
bar. I was disabled then, but it wasn't because I was disabled. It 
was because I was gay. I've been not considered for jobs because of 
a disability. I've been fired from jobs because I was gay. It's like 
double whammy.  
Raiskin:  But, also maybe a political understanding that would be fruitful?   
Grimes:  Honestly. Tell me about it. As a graduate student here at the U of O 
in International Studies, I did not have any— I'm thinking. Am I 
right? Yes. I did not have any classes that talked about disability, 
any course work, any professors that talked about it. Yeah, I'm 
pissed. This is where we should be teaching it. This is where it 
should be taught. I was the expert in the classroom, including with 
my own professors who were very open. But, I took feminist 
classes where there  was nothing about it, so yeah, there's still a gap. 
There's still a big gap.  
Raiskin:  You would think they could learn from each other politically so 
much, the two communities, when they overlap.  
Grimes:  Yeah, there is. There's a lot of opportunity there.  I did my research 
on HIV/AIDS and women with disabilities. I went to Zimbabwe 
and learned about the double oppression about living in a 
developing country and having HIV, and the high risk factors for 
women with disabilities there, but to be gay in that culture, you 
could be put to death. In fact, in Uganda, there is a law on the 
books. Do we talk about being a lesbian and disability? In a country 
like that, you can be put in jail. No. So, did I talk about me being a 
lesbian? Do I talk about that in my international work? No. I'm 
talking about it right now on camera, but I'm about to retire. That 
could put me in jeopardy. I could lose the respect of the local 
people that I work with.  
Raiskin:  When you're doing workshops here for WILD or whatever, do you 
come out?   
Grimes:  We do talk about it. Yes, we do and we have home stay families 
that are gay people, and people that come here to Eugene are told 
this is the culture here. When we go to your country, we will 
respect your culture.  
Long:  What's WILD?  
Grimes:  Women's Institute on Leadership and Disability.  
Raiskin:  Are they surprised? Does it— 
Grimes:  They're shocked. Many of them are. Maybe at first horrified, even. 
But, you know, I can't think of any experiences where people went 
away saying, "That was a terrible experience" or "Take me out of 
this home." No, no. It's just you come here with an open mind and 
you sign a paper that says I'm going to respect cultural differences. 
If it's something that is really bothersome, just like some people get 
bothered by the fact that some of our families in our culture feed 
their pets better than people eat in their countries they come from. 
They're told, "Okay, when you're going to say with your home stay 
family, make yourself at home. Just go ahead and go in the 
refrigerator and help yourself. That's our culture here." And, people 
come back the next day and say, "Well, I didn't know what was 
food I can eat and what is food for the cat in the refrigerator."  
 I had a woman stay in my home from Uganda, and the first night, I 
saw the light on in the room. I said, "She must be jet lagged. She's 
reading or something." No, the next morning I found she didn't 
know how to turn the light off. Our experiences limit us unless we  
allow ourselves to open our minds and that's to other cultures, 
other thought patterns, things we're afraid of, and I hope that that's 
how I continue to live my life.  
Raiskin:  We've interviewed several people like Evelyn Anderton, who are 
part of the lesbian community and then have been the host for 
women who have come for WILD, and it seems like such an 
amazing connection.  
Grimes:  It's fabulous, and it's not just— I'm talking about Africa a lot 
because I love it, but we have women— we used to bring thirty-five 
women. I think the groups are smaller now, or maybe they're about 
the same, but back then when we started WILD, we didn't have the 
Internet. People had to write their applications and send it in the 
mail. That was cumbersome. We didn't have Skype.  You can't 
interview them. It was painstaking but I was on the team, the 
leadership team, for the first program here in Eugene, and the 
dynamic energy of women, again, just coming together from all 
over the world, South America, Asia, all the continents, Africa, 
North America, to talk about their same issues,  the things that they 
share in common.  
Raiskin:  What kind of activities do you do with them?  
Grimes:  Well, I would put them in wheelchairs and make them play sports. 
Put them on bicycles, tandem bikes. We did the ropes challenge 
course, whitewater rafting.  And we have, of course, workshops 
talking about policy and laws and how to use the media to talk  
about your issues. Sexuality, families, healthcare, employment, all 
the things that everybody else talks about, but mainly looking at 
what are the barriers but what can we do about it. It's not a pity 
party. It's what can we do about it, and now those women who are 
alumni from our WILD program are many of the people that we go 
to when we get funding to work in the— we want to work with 
somebody we know can make  a difference, and that's what we do, 
so we have potential project partners in almost every country on 
the ground.  
Raiskin:  I was really surprised when I found out that MIUSA was in 
Eugene. It's known internationally, and it's right here in Eugene.  
Grimes:  Yeah, actually there's no organization in the world like it. And, 
there are very few disability rights organizations internationally in 
the world, and we're one of them and we are pioneering, and yes, 
we talk about gay issues. We have had some delegates that are out 
and open, but that's been more recent.  
Raiskin:  Would you care to share with us anything about your 
relationships? Romantic relationships you've had in relationship in 
Eugene who you consider family? Not so much?  
Grimes:  Not so much.  
Raiskin:  Where do you live now?  
Grimes:  Oh, I wanted to tell you. I did  want to backtrack one bit. I forgot to 
tell you that when you asked me about the women's movement and  
disability overlapping, there was a short period of time when we 
had a disabled lesbian group here in Eugene. It was called The Iron 
Duchess, and I think it was called that because a woman in a power 
wheelchair started it. What did we do? We would get together and 
talk about our issues, but I think we were just learning about what 
does it mean to be a disabled lesbian because there weren't very 
many. We were invited to be on panels at the U of O. But, one thing 
we did do talking about that conversation is we were asked by one 
of our members, her name is Lark, and she worked at Starflower. 
She's a lesbian, disabled lesbian, and she brought her issue to The 
Iron Duchess meeting, and she said, "I think I'm being 
discriminated against at Starflower."  
 And, we're like, "No. No, what?" "Well, they won't let me answer 
the phones." She has  a speech impairment from her disability. 
We're like, "Well, you are hard to understand, Lark, but you are 
understandable." She goes, "I know, and this is what I want to do." I 
said, "Okay, we'll call a meeting." Then, we talked about it first, 
"Well, what's going to be our approach? How are we going to 
handle this? This could be a little dicey. We don't want to— wait a 
minute, this is wrong." It just became a justice issue, so we sat 
down with what they would call management then with Lark 
there, and we supported her, and they shut us down. Then, we got 
a little more pushy and I don't think Lark ever got that job. She had 
other jobs at Starflower, but you know, I'll have to check for the 
record.   
 But, I do remember the first meeting. They were not going for it, so 
that's hard, too. You know? Oppression right there in your own 
backyard. I want to show both sides. I think people need to know 
there were two sides to the coin, and I guess my personal 
experiences are a really good example of that with my accident and 
being beat up and things like that. Okay, what was the other 
question now?  
Raiskin:  Where are you living now, and are you thinking about retirement?  
Grimes:  Right. I've always lived with other people. I like group living. It's 
from my early days, I guess. I own a horse farm out on Crow Road. 
I live with a partner,  a friend, and my parents. We have a 
compound and just starting marijuana production business on the 
farm, and I board and ride horses, and I've lived there since 1990.  
Raiskin:  How are your parents finding it living here?  
Grimes:  Well, my mom and my stepdad moved here about fifteen  years 
ago, and I remodeled some space for them to live. They're in their 
eighties  and they love it. Yes, I am thinking of retiring soon.  
Raiskin:  How many horses do you have?  
Grimes:  I have five. I just lost one last month. She was almost forty  years 
old. My horses are a big part of my lifestyle, and that happened 
right after my accident, I got back into horses because I grew up 
with them. But, I knew I needed  mobility and I wanted to be in the 
woods again, so I bought a horse and I got back into horseback  
riding and horse packing, and horse camping, and I've been doing 
it ever since.  
Raiskin:  Have you ever offered that as part of when the women come for 
Mobility International as an activity?  
Grimes:  Well, actually we started a non-profit riding program called Ride 
Able. It still exists and it's— not therapeutic. It's recreational riding 
for people with disabilities. We would contract with Ride Able with 
our MIUSA groups to go horseback riding. Of course, the people 
who wanted to try it loved it. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  So, what do you think about retirement?  
Grimes:  What do I think about it?  
Raiskin:  Yeah, when will it be? What will you do?  
Grimes:  I will continue to keep my farm going. It's a lot of work. I hope to 
make some money growing marijuana and there will probably 
always be an opportunity for a project to do disability work 
because there's so much work that needs to be done, and it's grant-
based, project-based. That's my passion.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any thoughts about aging as a lesbian?  
Grimes:  Yes, don't we all? Yeah, I think about it because my brother and my 
sister have children. I don't have children, and I'm taking care of 
my parents. I talk to a lot of my lesbian friends that don't have 
children, and some that do, that say, "Well, we really need a  
compound, Susie. We need to take care of each other and pool our 
resources, and we shouldn't be alone." Nobody wants to go to a 
home. We just need to make our own home. I have no doubt that'll 
be my future.  
Raiskin:  Do you see any activity in that direction?  
Grimes:  Not yet. I mean, I have a farm.  
Raiskin:  Everybody's going to come live with you?  
Grimes:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Like they did before.  
Grimes:  I have a  lovely place. Come on. Like we did before. Full circle.  
Raiskin:  With all our names on the deed.  
Grimes:  It won't cost you a thing. I'll pay for it.  
Raiskin:  If you were imagining a young person watching this, either now or 
fifty years from now, given your great, long experience in lots of 
different areas, is there any advice you'd give to a younger person?  
Grimes:  Yeah. I would say, and this is really hard to do, but peer pressure, 
forget about it. Just be yourself. I was really peer pressured, and I 
was young but I also came from one culture to 180 degrees. I was 
peer pressured into feeling guilty about being middle class, and 
maybe that was an era, but there's always going to be a reason to be 
peer pressured for something that's not right about you yourself.  
Everything's right about yourself, and if I had been able to have 
that self-confidence from day one, or early on that I'm just okay 
who I am no matter what.  How  would I be different? I may have 
avoided  a lot of stress and grief and pain and suffering to just 
accept myself for who I am, even if I'm paralyzed or I'm a lesbian, 
or I came from a middle class background or a Christian 
background. I just am who I am, and we're all just who we are.  
 Even I'm trying really hard now to accept people that think 
differently from me that I just— you know, it's hard. "You what? 
You voted for Donald Trump?" Even in my own family, that was 
hard, but that's the only thing that's going to really heal and change 
things is to try to understand, so that's my mission now. I have my 
personal growth goals, and they change as I get older and that's the 
one I'm really working for. So, if young people, if they could start 
now, or maybe they are. I don't even know because I don't have 
children, but I'm around my grandniece and nephew because they 
live in Portland, and they're four and two, and they're so smart, 
and I just don't want them to fall into any kind of materialistic trap 
that I think really clouds our ability to have more peer values, 
human values.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Long:  Yeah,  thank you. 
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  