 
Long: This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries' Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Vicki Silvers on August 3, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries' Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women’s, 
Gender, and Sexuality Studies. Vicki, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Silvers:  I agree.   
Long: Thank you.  
Silvers:  I’m glad I  didn't have to repeat that.  
Long: Let's start out with a basic question. Can you please tell us where 
and when you were born, where you grew up, and something 
about your early background?  
Silvers:  I was born in Phoenix, Arizona, in 1962. My parents moved from 
there when I was five to the Northwest. We lived in Seattle for a 
brief period of time, and then we moved to Coeur d’Alene, Idaho, 
and then moved to southern Oregon when I was in the fifth grade. 
Even living in southern Oregon, we moved from Phoenix to Gold 
Hill to Central Point to Medford. I moved a lot. I've lived in a 
zillion houses. Every two years, we lived in a different house.  
 My parents owned a business, which was— it created a life that 
was different than a lot of my friends. They were fairly successful. I 
lived around a lot of working class people. My family had a little 
bit more money than they did. That set me aside in many ways, in 
my growing up in that area. My parents weren't home a lot. They 
were busy running this business. My father was not a great guy. I 
lived in an abusive household. That's still hard for me. I'm sorry.  
Long: It's okay.  
Silvers:  That was my life. I always felt like I didn't belong there. Then I 
remember, at actually a very young age, watching my parents, and 
thinking, "If this is what I'm supposed to be, I'm not that." I  
remember thinking, "I will never get married." I think back on that. 
I think that's kind of when I realized I was not heterosexual.  I grew 
up in that and felt very different. I liked being at school even 
though I was different than a lot of my friends because I wasn't 
home.  
 I remembered also wanting to go to boarding school. I really 
wanted out of my house. I was an athlete. I was smart. I was one of 
the top students in my school and I was an athlete. I came out to 
myself and some friends when I was fifteen. That set me into a 
place of hiding.  Even though I was popular and I was an athlete— I 
was a good athlete. I was a good student. I also felt very much like I 
couldn't be that. I didn't like hanging out with most of the people 
that were popular and all that. I felt very separate, even though I 
had a small group of friends. There were a lot of lesbians in 
southern Oregon at that time, but very closeted.  
Long: Vicki, if I could just ask, what year was that when you were fifteen? 
Silvers:  Well, let's see. I graduated in 1980. I was a young student, so I 
graduated when I was seventeen, so 1976-ish. I have a horrible 
memory for dates. I would never be good at history. Let's see. 
There were a couple of gay men in my high school. They were 
more out for some reason. It wasn't actually okay but they couldn't 
hide it.  They're super flamboyant.  
 One guy became my best friend. He connected me then to the gay 
men's community from the college in Ashland. They kind of lived  
in Central Point. I was going to Crater High School, so I hung out 
with them. It was trippy. Here I was, this athlete. I was kind of 
butch. I was hanging out with all these gay boys. Brian, actually, 
when we were graduating, he got beat up. That was kind of sad. He 
didn't even make it to our graduation because he was in the 
hospital. He ended up moving to gay men's land. He became a 
fairy in southern Oregon.  
Long: Was that Nomenus?  
Silvers:  No. What land did he live on? I can't remember. It was in Wolf 
Creek.  
Long: The Radical Faeries.  
Silvers:  Yes, the Radical Faeries. He ended up dying of AIDS. Because I was 
an athlete, I expected to go play sports, some college. All of my 
friends were better than I was, and so I didn't get recruited. I didn't 
know what to do. My parents didn't have an education. I wasn't 
really put on this path. I think, also, because my family  had money, 
there was an expectation that I knew what to do. Didn't get a lot of 
support in terms of college and what I should be doing. I went to a 
small school in Long Beach for a couple years.  
Long: Was that Long Beach, Washington?  
Silvers:  Oregon. I mean, California, sorry. I had an aunt that lived in 
Hollywood. My life, even there, was fairly closeted. I spent as much 
time as I could going to Hollywood. I had a fake ID. I would go to  
lesbian bars. I had a friend who was able to fly. She would come 
frequently and we'd go out. I lived this secret life, and went to 
school, and started to also build my feminist kind of awareness. 
The ERA was happening. It was really very superficial for me, but I 
kind of knew it was happening. I wasn't living in a very political 
world.  
 Then I went to Arizona. I went to Arizona State for a year. That's 
kind of where I found politics but it was— AIDS was just really 
breaking out. It was still very gay male focused. I joined the gay 
student union. I made them add L to it. That  was even 
controversial. It was like, "Why? Lesbians, aren't you gay?" It's like, 
"Well—" I started to build my feminist identity around that. I 
created a small community there but it was so bar focused, right, so 
going out and being out all night. I started to become a more 
separatist, lesbian dyke and wore men's clothes. My mom hated it. 
"Why you have to dress like a man?" I was like, "Why does it 
matter?" It was so funny.  
 I was in Phoenix, first of all, super hot, right, all the time. It was just 
such a  dark, sweaty time.  I was also kind of becoming more sexual. 
It was that. That was kind of my memory of that time. My 
girlfriend at the time lived in this funky apartment. The swamp 
cooler was going. We would do our laundry in the— Of course, 
you never wore a bra at that time. We joke about sweat from our 
tits. When people say, "Oh, living in Phoenix," that's where I go,  
right, to sweating, and sitting in her van, waiting for our laundry to 
be done. I don't know.  
 Even though my parents had money, they wouldn't pay for school. 
I was super poor. I had some financial aid but there was this 
challenge around whether I was a resident or not. I ended up 
having to quit because I couldn't pay for school. Then I moved to 
San Francisco. That girlfriend ended up moving  to San Francisco. I 
lived there for a summer. That's really where I got kind of tuned 
into, "Oh, there's a lesbian community in this world and not gay 
male focused."  
Raiskin: Did you go to the gay male bars when you were a kid in Oregon?  
Silvers:  There wasn't a bar per se, but yes. Well, I had a fake ID when I was 
sixteen. It was bad. In Ashland, there was a bar, or a restaurant bar, 
that we would go to with the men. What they would do is they'd 
have parties. They also traveled to San Francisco and they'd bring 
drugs up. Amyl nitrate, I was doing that in school because nobody 
knew what it was. They didn't know I was doing drugs. I could do 
it almost out in the open. They're so stupid.  
 There was a lot of alcohol and drugs when I was younger, which 
consequently led me to stopping. I mean, I didn't become full-
blown teetotaler, but I just stopped because I realized there was this 
kind of loss of control. I would watch people. I'd be like, "That 
doesn't look good to me." I kind of toned it down and then it 
became more manageable. Yes, there were a lot of drugs and  
alcohol when I was in high school. There are a lot of stories that 
could be told.  
 I lived in San Francisco for a brief time that summer, but I knew I 
wanted to go back to school and finish my degree.  I was still 
considered an Oregon resident. I loved San Francisco, but I knew 
that I wanted to get this done. So, I came here. I was here for a year. 
Here  I lived in L.A., Phoenix, and San Francisco, and I was like, "Oh 
my God. These people have no idea what's going on in the world." 
Eugene felt so small and so back country. Ugh.  
 It was interesting. The lesbian community was so different than 
what I was used to. Even in San Francisco, it was a little more— 
Women dressed. You come here, and it was Birkenstocks and not 
shaving. I was still considered myself a separatist, but it was such a 
different scene, right, everything, all those stereotypes that people 
talk about. It flipped my world from being so gay male focused to 
lesbian focused. It was such a great, amazing thing.  
 I moved more towards that. I remember when I got here, the 
people I knew were actually U of O athletes because they were 
friends from high school, but of course, not out. That's kind of who 
I knew and how I got settled. My secret life was  going to Mother 
Kali’s  and figuring out what was happening. I think within months, 
I'm pretty sure it was the fall, the first thing I did was I went to a 
women's encirclement of the Boeing plant in Seattle to protest the 
nuclear war and all that stuff, the nuclear disarm— Or, they were 
trying to get them to stop building nukes.   
 We were going to encircle it. It was this whole Northwest 
gathering. I met people then that I still know in Eugene. That was 
'83, I want to say. It was a pretty amazing thing. It really kind of 
cemented where I was in Eugene. I completely moved out of my 
friends who were athletes. It was such a different world. I started 
hanging out with all these political activists. It shifted my whole 
trajectory.  
 Meanwhile, I was a student, which was also weird, because I did 
not have a college experience because my world was so off-campus 
because that's where all the politics in the lesbian community, in 
my mind, was. I spent a lot of time then moving towards more 
separatist, kind of political thinking and feminism. Then from 
there, just from that, building more community and then having— 
leaping many years forward, being in a relationship and having 
kids.  
Long:  Can we back up for a second?  
Silvers:  Yes, for sure.  
Long:  When you came to UO, what did you study?  
Silvers:  Oh, my gosh. Again, I did not have parental guidance in college 
around education. My father, I look back and think he probably 
was illiterate. My mother graduated from high school but never 
talked about— when  I did get a chance to talk to her about it, a lot 
of regrets that she didn't go to college and she had desires. I didn't 
know what to do. I didn't know what I wanted to be. I didn't  
understand college. When I went to Arizona State, I studied 
business but it was really a weird thing. I had taken art classes and 
I really liked it. I kind of had an aptitude, so I studied fine arts, 
which was kind of— if my kid were to do that, I'd be like, "What 
are you doing.  Are you crazy? What are you going to— " 
 At that time, this program was really craft oriented. There was no 
promise of work. It was just, I needed a degree. I wanted to do 
something and I enjoyed it. It took me a long time to finish my 
degree because I had to work, and do that, and work. Actually, 
after a year of living in Eugene and going to school, I was like, "I've 
got to get out of here. I got to go back to the city." I went back to 
San Francisco and lived for a year, and worked, and played, and 
hung out.  
 Also, then it was funny because it was like, "Oh, wait a minute. I 
am never outside. I can't live in a cement jungle. I need people who 
know who I am. I want people to just say hi to me when I pass 
them on the street." I lived in the Haight. I'd get off the bus and go 
to the same grocery store to get  some food for dinner. They acted 
like they'd never seen me before. I go there every day.  I was like, "I 
got to get back to something a little more grounded."  
 I still miss living in a more urban kind of environment, but Eugene 
has— it’s become more like that for me. I came back to finish my 
degree but it took me a long time. I've done a zillion different jobs. I 
still never figured out what I wanted to be when I grew up and  
sometimes I wonder. Yes, I studied fine arts and did a lot of clay 
and jewelry.  
Raiskin:  Did you know about the southern— You knew about the gay men's 
land?  Did you know about the lesbian land?  
Silvers:  Mm-mm [negative]. No, I didn't.  
Raiskin:  Oh, that's interesting.  
Silvers:  I'm not sure that I would have been interested. That's that kind of 
urban, country kind of thing. When I was younger, my father, who 
was Italian and had moved from the East Coast— I don't know. 
Some people say this is kind of every middle-aged man's dream. 
He bought land out in the country. We had many acres and there 
was BLM behind us. We were out in the middle of nowhere. I'm at 
middle-school age. I thought I had gone to jail.  
 I didn't have a car. There were no cell phones. There wasn't a bus 
that went out there. If I wanted to go someplace, I had to get up in 
the morning, and go with them to their business, and hang out in 
town all day long. We would just wander around Medford all day 
long because I didn't want to be out in the country. It was funny. I 
look back and I think, "Living out there wasn't so bad."  
Long: What was Medford like at that— this was the '70s? 
Silvers:  The '70s. It's funny because my world was so small, and around 
school, and all of that. Again, a lot of drinking and partying for 
something to do. I had so many close encounters with— just, I  
think back and wonder how I made it. Didn't get killed in a car 
crash. I didn't get arrested. I didn't get kicked out of school. There 
were a lot of things that were in my favor, right, a family with 
money. I was smart. I was a student. I mean, I was a student 
athlete. All these things made it possible for me to have this whole 
kind of bad behavior. My parents weren't barely aware. My mother 
was super ignorant about what was happening. My brother, he was 
a pot smoker. I had these weird worlds.  This lesbian thing and this 
athlete thing— my brother was a pot smoker. We had parties when 
my parents traveled. Oh my God. Parties get busted. It was just this 
funny, weird world.  
Long:  Do you recall—what was the feel of Medford, though? Did it have 
a small town feel?  
Silvers:  Yes, it did, definitely. Yes, we could walk all over. Also, very 
working class, super working class. When I moved and had to go to 
a Central Point school district school—my sister, who's the oldest, 
was adamant. She's like, "I'm not going to go to a goat-roper 
school.”  It was very working class, lot of more agricultural farming, 
ranching kind of thing. People have lived there forever and they 
were related.  
 See, I never lived in the same place for very long so I didn't have 
those really deep roots. A lot of my friends, they had cousins in 
school. They'd lived in the same house their entire lives and their 
parents still live there. When I go back, I don't want to see anybody. 
I really don't. I don't want to go anywhere. I don't want people to  
recognize me. A friend of mine who was a year younger than me 
has said, "When you left high school, it was like you disappeared."  
 I did. I did not want to be found. I did have a girlfriend in high 
school. Oh my gosh. There's so much drama there. It was so bad. 
We had a coach who was a  les— actually, both of our coaches were 
lesbians. They were super closeted. One of them was not so great. 
She was having an affair with this girl who was my friend. Then 
she left. That coach left for the summer. Then that person and I 
became girlfriends. We spent the summer hanging out. Her parents 
also weren't around. Her father was a developer of housing. They 
built a house that they needed somebody to live in, so the two of us 
basically lived there.  Like, I'm fifteen! We're living in this house, 
“playing house.” It was trippy. Then her sisters and brother would 
stay with us. We'd make breakfast. It was like “Mom and Dad.” I 
remember Saturdays was chocolate and biscuits. I mean, it was like 
the families we  didn't have at home.  Her parents also had a lot of 
money. It was  trippy. It was— oh my gosh.  
 Her father was on the school board. He knew that she was a 
lesbian. He hated it. He made trouble. He actually had that coach 
arrested because he had them followed. He caught them going 
across state lines, which is against the  law, to take a minor across 
state lines.  He had her arrested and kicked out of school. Oh, the 
drama.  
Long:  Do you know what happened to that teacher?   
Silvers:  Well, then— yes, she moved to Salem. She was an amazing throw 
coach. She actually was coaching somebody who was an Olympic 
hopeful.  
Long:  This was track and field?  
Silvers:  Yes. Actually, my friend/girlfriend was also an Olympic hopeful 
and came to the U of O. She was recruited. She was an alcoholic. 
Lots of drama there. When I left high school, I actually didn't tell 
anybody where I was going. I didn't leave my phone number with 
many people because I didn't want her calling me because she was 
a mess.  She had moved to Eugene. She was going to school. She 
was a year older than I was. She would, alcoholic, call me, "I 
want— " I was like, "No." Then when she finally found me, I was 
like, "How did you find me? I don't want you calling me." I just 
never wanted to see people again. I did not have fond memories of 
high school, even though there were fond memories. It was like 
torture.  
Long:  Was her alcoholism related to her sexuality in some way?  
Silvers:  I think it was in her family.  
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Silvers:  Her parents were weird. Her parents are alcoholics too. She's since 
become sober and we're actually really good friends. She moved to 
Alaska. Now she's back in Medford, which I don't understand. She 
got married to a guy. She's got a zillion kids. We're really good  
friends. When I get to see her, we'll spend all night talking. It's 
really fun.  
 It was a trippy place, lot of dysfunction. I also kind of remember 
Medford being super hot. It's funny because the better memories 
are summer when I had off school. I'd go into town because I had 
to do that if I wanted to go anywhere. Well, when I got into high 
school, I had to have a car, so I got a car when I was fifteen. I had a 
provisional driver's license so I could get to school. Then that 
opened my world up.  
 Again, my mom's super ignorant. I drove all over the state at fifteen  
using her gas credit card. I went places that— I had friends in 
Portland. I had a lot of older friends. I had friends in Portland and I 
hung out with them. I had just graduated high school. I remember 
going to Portland to hang out with a friend. I did not know she was 
interested in me. She took me to Darcelle's, [Embers]  I think that's 
what it was called, in Portland. It was a gay men's kind of drag 
club. I was wearing my graduation dress, all dolled up. This guy 
thought I was a drag queen. I was just like, "How can— " It was so 
funny. I'm seventeen. 
Raiskin:  Did you ever feel over your head?  
Silvers:  No. 
Raiskin:  No, you were just—  
Silvers:  I was faking it until I could make it. I was tall for my age. I always 
appeared older. I was never considered— I just wore that.  I just 
always hung out with people who were older than me. Again, I 
was always the youngest in my class. It felt pretty normal. Oh, God. 
I mean, there's just so many crazy stories. Traveling as a athlete, 
coming up here— Oh, I also played traveling softball. 
Long:  I was going to  ask— Your sports were softball and— 
Silvers:  When you go to a small school, you have to play everything.  
Long:  Oh. 
Silvers:  I played volleyball, basketball. I threw. Then not until my senior 
year did they have a softball team. I ended up not doing softball in 
high school, but then I played softball in the summers. That's where 
we traveled all over the state and sometimes into Washington. 
Then my last year playing, I ended up on a women's team. They 
were all the coaches from southern Oregon high schools and they're 
all lesbians. I had a fake ID. They weren't bothered by that. We 
would travel. We came to Eugene a lot. They took me  to the Riv  
Room all the time. It was incredible.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe the Riv Room?  
Silvers:  Oh my gosh. Then actually when I moved here, that became my 
haven.  I loved to dance. The Riv  Room was this wood-paneled, 
dark, grimy— it almost felt like a basement but it wasn't.  Then the 
dance floor was behind the bar. It was all painted black. It was  
almost like they didn't want people to see people dancing. Then 
there was this other space that was the pool table and bench 
seating. Oh, it was just kind of gross.  
 Almost every lesbian bar I'd ever been in was like that so that 
didn't feel any different. It was just kind of how it was. A friend of 
mine had worked cleaning one of the bars in Phoenix. She was like, 
"The smoke on the mirrors was the worst to get  off.”  It was kind of 
like that, stinky, sweaty, but so fun. It was freeing to be able to do 
that, and be in that space, and feel like, "Oh, this is where I belong."  
Long:  Did you meet other lesbians that you continued connections with 
later?  
Silvers:  Oh yes. Oh no. No. Oftentimes, we would stay in people's houses 
because we couldn't afford hotels and stuff. Oh, we'd all go out and 
then  you'd all end up in bed.  No, I did not want to stay in touch 
with them. That was the year after I graduated from high school, 
the summer after I— then I went to L.A. No, I didn't stay in touch 
with anybody. No. I would love to find some of those coaches 
because they were really good to hang out with. Those were the 
days.  
 When I came to Eugene, again, found this kind of lesbian 
community. Then I started— my years back and forth on campus, I 
ended up, for some reason, started to swim a lot and then I found a 
friend through swimming. We would work out morning and night. 
Then she also loved to dance, so the two of us would go to the Riv  
Room and dance our little brains out every chance we could get. It 
was really fun.  
 So many people kind of floated through my life that I have no idea 
where they went. I think part of that is from growing up, moving a 
lot, that it was not uncommon for me to have really deep 
relationships with  people and then move on.  It's interesting to— 
having kids in this town and having them grow up here, to 
experience that through their eyes? They have friends that they 
knew when they were babies. That is so different to me.  
 I also almost lived through that. When Emma was going off to 
school and her friends were going off to school, I was like, "Do you 
still stay in touch with so-and-so? Why don't you stay in touch with 
them? You should stay in touch with them. You're going to wish 
you had." I'm like, "Where is so-and-so? Why don't you call them? 
Where are they? How come you don't take care of this 
relationship?" I have a little bit of that. I watch these relationships. 
I'm like, "Oh, I missed out on that."  
 I can remember people but I have no idea where they were, where 
they went, what happened to them. I don't have those 
relationships. This project also kind of revived that, like, "Oh my 
gosh. I met them when I went on this encirclement," or, "Right, we 
started that organization." Again, they float in and out of your life. 
You know they're around. You know you know them. You've 
known them for years. Now through social media, you kind of can  
keep up with people and you feel like you have those relationships 
when you really don't.  
 As I've lived on in Eugene, my partner at that time and I started 
what I now call "social service" to create women's community, 
especially around entertainment. We helped start One Common 
Thread, which is a women's coffeehouse. That was kind of a roving 
coffeehouse. I know that there were permanent ones. A lot of 
women who are older than me talk about them like Baba Yaga's 
and some other places. That was not a part of my life. I did not 
frequent those places. Those  things kind of died  off. Starflower had 
ended. That type of lesbian community had started to kind of 
wane. We needed to create something. There was kind of this weird 
vacuum of— there’s  nothing here and we need something. There's 
so many lesbians.  
Long:  This was in the early  '80s?  
Silvers:  I would say it was more like mid '80s, mid to— '86-ish, '87, maybe? 
We started One Common Thread, which was super fun.  
Raiskin:  How did you come up with the name?  
Silvers:  Gosh, I don't even remember. Then we had a board. Then we 
started to create this organization. Then it was almost like a 
nonprofit. That always creates drama. I don't remember how we 
came up with that name. It was really fun. I mean, we had a good 
time. We had parties. We did a Halloween party at Westmoreland 
Community Center. It was just so much fun to create a space that  
people came together and could laugh, and play, and see each 
other because I had also— in San Francisco, there were women's 
community centers. We didn't have that here. That's what we were 
trying to create. It became that and it was a monthly thing.  
 Then from that— I'm trying to remember where it started honestly. 
Sue and I, at that time, and somebody, Daryl Moore, we started 
IMRU, which was a women's production company. We brought 
women's music and comedy to Eugene. Again, a social service— 
we never made money off of that. It was hugely popular and 
successful, but it is not a moneymaking venture. That IMRU we 
came up with. We were trying to come up with something, again, 
slightly closeted, didn't want to be completely out. I mean, we were 
out, but you can't be in their face. Why do you have to do this? We 
wanted it to be a little under the radar. IMRU, “I am lesbian, are 
you?” Honestly, I can't remember how we connected but we ended 
up connecting with Olivia Records. I had listened to Olivia artists 
nonstop.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe what Olivia Records is?  
Silvers:  Olivia Records was a women's recording company. It has grown 
into something crazy. They were an indie label that did women's 
music, so Meg Christian, Cris Williamson, Margie Adams, and so 
many other things.  They promoted women's music. It was all about 
lesbians. If you had a Cris Williamson record, it was like, you'd 
listen to it nonstop because at that time, we had nothing.  Nothing.  
We didn't have anything on TV. We didn't have anything that 
represented our lives. That was it.  
 I had listened to all of these artists and I knew who Olivia was. I 
had never gone to a women's music festival. Michigan's Womyn's 
Music Festival is super big. They were part of that, too, those 
women that started Olivia Records. I knew all their names, Boo 
Price, and all these people, Judy Dlugacz. I mean, I knew who they 
were because they were on the records. I'd pour over those lyrics 
and the pictures. You didn't have the Internet, so this was what  you 
had, an album cover.  You sleep with it.  
 I knew everything about this. Never in my wildest dreams would I 
have thought, ten years later, I  would meet these people,  literally 
meet them and be in the same space as they were. I think maybe 
through One Common Thread, the three of us went to a women's 
music conference in San Francisco. That's kind of how we got 
connected to them. I'm kind of remembering. There was somebody 
who lived here who had a connection with somebody who worked 
for Olivia, Tam Martin. She helped us promote. We brought Cris 
Williamson. Meg Christian, at that time, had kind of gone off to the 
ashram and done her thing. Margie Adams came. We brought 
Casselberry-Dupree. I mean, we brought a lot of amazing artists 
here. It was so fun.  
Long:  Where did they perform?   
Silvers:  Anywhere we could but we actually did shows in the Hult Center, 
in the little theater, which was pretty— we had hit the big time at 
that point. Here's a great story. We were bringing Margie Adams. 
Tickets weren't selling so great. She was kind of one of those artists 
that— she did some song about unicorns. Anyway, she was fairly 
popular but not nearly as popular as Cris Williamson, and oh, Tret 
Fure, and all those. Cris Williamson came, too.  
 Margie's tickets weren't selling so well. Sweet Honey in the Rock 
were performing the week before at the Hult Center. We did not 
bring them. Margie said, 'Well, tell Bernice that I'm coming and she 
should announce it from the stage." I'm like, "Really?" She said, 
"Yes, leave her a note. She knows who I am." I may have even been 
working at the Hult Center at the time.  
 I knew where they were staying, so I left a message at the Hilton 
for Bernice, and said, "If you wouldn't mind, would you please 
announce this show. Margie Adams will be here next week and 
we're selling tickets." I went to that show. How could you not? She 
didn't say anything, which, what am I? The next morning, my 
phone rings. I answer it. It was in the morning. I'm like, "Hello?" 
"This is Bernice." I about peed  my pants. I was like, "Yes?" It was 
like the President calling.  She's like, "I am so sorry. I did not get 
your message until just now." I was just like, "It's okay." Like, “uh-
uh-uh-uh.” It was amazing.  
 Disappointed, but that was such a fun thing to have in my life. 
Again, never in my wildest dreams, when I was a teenager, would I  
ever imagine this would be my life. We did that. At some point, we 
had to quit because it was just costing us so much money. We were 
ready to have children.  
Long:  What were your jobs at that time?  
Silvers:  Sue worked for the City of Eugene doing recreations. She was 
actually a specialist in specialized recreation, so adapted rec. I was 
doing a zillion different things. I was still trying to be a student and 
finish my degree. I had maybe— oh, I know what I was doing. I 
was working for the city seasonally, and helped put on the Eugene 
Celebration at that time, and did that for four years.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe Eugene Celebration?  
Silvers:  Oh yes. Oh my gosh. We actually grew that event to so large, we 
were the first— when  I stopped doing it, was the first year they 
gated it. Eugene Celebration was this big event that started more as 
a community thing through some community activists, Eugene 
progressives. They just started celebrating the city. It was 
downtown. I think it had many reasons for beginning. Then 
somehow the city took it over, perhaps maybe because some of 
those people were elected  at that time. The city took it on. It was 
many stages across the downtown area. It spanned from the Fifth 
Street Market to downtown.  
 I think, at that time, we were really trying to bring people 
downtown. The businesses were kind of dying. This was in the late 
'80. Let's see. Emma was born in '94, so it was late '80s, '90s. They  
were trying to bring people downtown. They had closed the 
downtown area to traffic. We were trying to come back from that. 
We brought artists from many places, a lot of Northwest artists. 
There was food booths in a parking lot that was empty. There was a 
huge parade that was super fun. It was hugely popular and 
controversial, all at the same time. As politics started heating up 
around gay and lesbian stuff, the OCA, it became even more 
political, and controversial, and strifed with tension.  
 It was so fun, but it became so huge. It also became kind of like, 
"Uh! There's too many people in one place." On the Hult Center 
Plaza, there were times when you couldn't get through. It was wall 
to wall  people, and you really couldn't get through. As it grew, we 
had to figure out how to alleviate those problems, and spread it 
out, and try to limit the— not limit the numbers, but just trying to 
figure how to manage that.  
 I was one of the coordinators. There were two of us. We had 
another staff and a lot of volunteers. I did everything from making 
sure we had ice trucks, and the street closures worked with Public 
Works and police, and all that stuff. It was really fun. It was really 
fun doing it. It was interesting. When I stopped, I didn't know how 
to enjoy it. I couldn't go and enjoy it. People are like, "Are you 
going to the Celebration?" "No, I'm not  going to go down there."  I 
didn't know what to do because I had always worked it nonstop for 
the whole time. It was something else. Did  you ever go?  
Raiskin:  I went to the parade.   
Silvers:  The parade— I just remember, also at the time— here  I am, a 
lesbian, working on this. The OCA thing was super big, anti-gay 
measures. We’d get calls about the parade. First of all, people 
wanted to just  enter it. It was like, "No, you have to fill out an 
application." Of course, the people who were anti-gays and anti-
anything liberal, they felt like we were doing that just to keep them 
out. There was this kind of perception that the city was trying to 
monitor and censor. They wanted— "If you're going to let those gay 
people in, we should have floats with beastiality." I mean, I'm not 
kidding you. These were the calls we would get. It was horrifying.  
Long:  What were those organizations who wanted to have a  float like 
that?  
Silvers:  Oh gosh. I think the OCA had a lot of baby organizations of just 
groups of people. I'm not sure that they even had names. They're 
religious groups, typically. Sometimes I think they were just calling 
to harass us.  They were just trying to make their point. "Why are 
you letting them in? If they're going to be in, then you should have 
all these other things."  
Raiskin:  Then there were the Rickys and the Lucys.  
Silvers:  Those people tended to be the people— that’s  where it started. The 
people who were the Rickys, they were really some of the people 
who started the Eugene Celebration way back. They were more 
making comment on more of the national politics or even local 
political level of anything that was controversial. I think one of the  
ones I remember the most was to do with the Pope and the Catholic 
Church. Honestly, I can't even remember what the problem was. 
The parade passed the Catholic Church  downtown and they 
genuflected. And oh, my gosh. You would have thought that they 
had brought out assault rifles or something. It was crazy. Of course, 
the city, for some reason, became responsible. It was a community 
event. It was interesting working for the municipality at that time 
and having these weird conversations.  
Raiskin:  Can you say  something about the Slug Queen?  
Silvers:  Oh, yes. That was one of the things I got to do. The Slug Queen is 
this coronation that they— I don't even know where that started. I 
mean, it started a long time ago. They had a competition, a Slug 
Queen competition, every year. They had a queen, and it wasn't 
always a woman. They went through this whole pageant process. 
That person was basically the kind of the Eugene Celebration 
ambassador. They had to make public events, and appearances, 
and all that stuff.  
 They were funny and crazy people. I mean, just super funny, 
creative, out there. It was so fun. One of the first things I did is I 
came onto the Celebration staff, and I got to coordinate that. It was 
always way in advance because this person needed to be crowned 
so that they could present at this event. They were in the parade. 
They'd show up at stages.  
Raiskin:  Peter DeFazio would clean up—  
Silvers:  Right, right. Oh yes. Peter DeFazio would scoop up the slug slime. 
The old queens always were— it got passed onto them to be a part 
of— to create this pageant. It was so fun working with them and so 
trippy to watch this happen, this go down. They had— the Slugs 
typically took on some persona of some popular— some issue that 
was going on in the world. Whether it was popular culture, or 
politics, or who knows? It was something Eugene, some 
controversy in Eugene. That was really fun. It was a really great 
group of people.  
 It's funny because sometimes people didn't know who they were in 
real life but I did. They were so different. It was interesting to kind 
of be somebody watching that from afar but so fun to work with 
them. Again, many of those people are still in Eugene. I see them. I 
know who they are. I run into them in the market. They're, "Oh, 
how are you?" Eugene is kind of like that. You know somebody 
from twenty  years ago and they're still your friend. That was a fun 
experience.  
Long:  What happened to the Eugene Celebration? It petered out.  
Silvers:  Yes. I think that it— it’s interesting because when something gets 
that big, then people don't want to go because it's too big, like, "Ah. 
It's too much. I can't get through. Ah, I can't do it. It takes too much 
time. It's hard to get food." You can't— 
Raiskin:  It's competing with the football season.   
Silvers:  Right.  We had to move it around because of football. They were 
doing more games, I think, earlier on in the fall.  Then I think one of 
the last years the city did it, it rained. It was a huge economic loss, 
huge. It was a very expensive event. That was the other issue. I also 
worked at the Hult Center. At that time, at the Hult Center, they 
had a artistic director who brought amazing artists to Eugene. They 
had all these series. They had a dance series, a jazz series. Oh my 
God. It was incredible, some of the most  incredible dance you'd see 
in a town this size. It was all funded by tax dollars. It was run by 
the city. Then the Measure 48 and 50, the tax measures, came along, 
and it cut all of that drastically. I actually lost my job through that. 
That was an impact  to the Eugene Celebration. They just couldn't 
subsidize it anymore.  
 They didn't ever want to gate it to the point where you had to— the 
cost to get in was prohibitive. The gate fee, when we started, was 
$2, right, when we started gating it. Before that, it had been free.  
You could just come. I think we got money from the food vendors' 
proceeds or rent. I don't remember. It was never a moneymaking 
venture for them. I think that was part of having to let it go and 
pass it on to another organization. It's just morphed over time. The 
last big one, I think, was when they had the rain and it really was a 
huge— ugh, that was bad. It was really bad. We never had that.  
Raiskin:  Were there a lot of lesbians involved in the city organizations that 
were cultural?  
Silvers: Nope.   
Raiskin:  No? Did you feel like you were one of the only ones?  
Silvers:  Yes, yes, yes. There were a lot of lesbians that worked for the city, 
but not— no. It still was so kind of this under-culture— because 
that's why we were doing IMRU and bringing these things because 
you just couldn't find it. Then through IMRU, and we brought 
comedy, one of the last shows we did was Karen Williams, who's a 
comic. In order to make that a little more fruitful for her, we did a 
comedy workshop the next day and several people came. A lot of 
what she taught— she called it "Healing Through Humor". A lot of 
what she taught was improv. From that, we had so much fun that 
there was group of us that, "We want to keep playing. Let's do 
this."  
 Then we started renting space  at a community center to get 
together and just do improv. Some of those folks had done theater 
in college or this was kind of something they were familiar with. 
Sally Sheklow at that time was doing The Sound of Lesbians. We 
started doing that. So, all these things were kind of overlapping.  
One Common Thread was still going. We were doing IMRU and 
then this happened. One Common Thread was starting to wind 
down. It wasn't becoming viable. As time went on, we no longer 
needed to have these spaces created for us because we were 
becoming more mainstream. Probably by this time, Ellen had come 
out. Who knew that would ever  happen? Rosie O'Donnell.  
 Things started to become more mainstream  and we didn't need to 
create space. We were able to be out more. Things were starting to  
wane. One Common Thread was ending. This group of people 
were getting together doing improv. I went to a One Common 
Thread meeting because they were like, "We're closing and we 
want one last act." We were still doing IMRU. "Do you know any 
comedy?" They always draw. Comedy always draws. I was like, 
"Well, I know this group of women who are doing improv. Let me 
go back to them and see if they want to do this." Well, I did and 
they scattered. The last standing women were me, Sally Sheklow, 
Enid. I don't think Debby had been a part of that. The three of us— 
Then somebody said, "Well, you should talk to Debby Martin. She's 
really funny." I'm like, "Debby Martin? Like, what?" 
 I'm not kidding. I'm like, "Debby Martin?" The four of us got 
together and we started playing. We did this One Common Thread 
show, thinking we were just going to do it once. Actually, Sally 
found somebody else who wanted to do it and then she realized we 
were going to be out. We did not want to be closeted lesbians. She's 
just like, she couldn't do it. I don't know if you've interviewed 
Sally, but she probably told this story.  We had our picture taken, 
the five of us, our heads on this shelf. This person  was in the 
middle of the— she's the middle person. Then when we go to do 
the show, we had to have a promotional picture.  I spliced her out, 
put the picture together for the four of us. What we would say was, 
this is our first and perhaps, final performance. We were hugely 
successful. Who knew? It was so fun. Then— 
Raiskin:  Called WYMPROV!   
Silvers:  It was called WYMPROV! We had to come up with a name like 
that. I think if we had more time, it probably wouldn't have been 
that, but it became a great name. Who knew? We went on to 
perform for many twenty-plus years.  
Long:  Where would you perform?  
Silvers: Anywhere we could. At that time, Condon School, which is now— 
I can't remember what you call it.  
Raiskin:  Agate Hall.  
Silvers:  Agate Hall, right, was a big empty gym and they had a stage. They 
rented that out. Oh my God. It was a horrible place to perform. 
Even IMRU did shows in there. It was really helpful because it was 
cheap. We would do community centers. We would do our own 
shows in community centers. We did WOW  Hall. Anywhere we 
could— Even IMRU did shows at Willamalane Senior Center, so 
wherever we  could find a stage. We actually got hired to do some 
Eugene Celebration events at the Hult Center in the lobby. Then 
First Night was happening, so we did some First Night shows, so 
wherever we could in Eugene. Then we actually did some stuff— 
we performed  in a barn in Bend. We performed in a grange on the 
southern Oregon coast. We have performed in some funky places. 
We've performed in living rooms.  
Long:  Do you have any recordings of your performance?   
Silvers:  So, yeah, then we wanted to do a— there was an international 
women's comedy festival in Chicago. Enid was doing women's 
music on KLCC, on Monday nights? Sue and I had been doing 
IMRU, so we had all of these Olivia connections. We had been on 
an Olivia cruise. Olivia Records grew to become this thing  that 
became— doing vacations for women only, which was amazing. 
We had been on a cruise. They'd invited us to, not perform, but just 
to go on one after having been at a Club Med, which was so fun in 
my twenties. Oh my gosh.  
 Then just to be in an all-women’s space at that time was so 
amazing, so freeing. On this cruise, we went to a private island. 
Well, first of all, we went to St. Thomas and St. John. We show up 
at St. John in the morning, early, early, early. It was just us, just 
these women from Olivia. We got naked, immediately got naked. 
We're snorkeling naked and hanging out on the— it was a public 
beach. It was Trunk Bay, if anybody's ever been there.  
 Then all of a sudden, people start showing up because it was a 
snorkeling spot. There was a little snorkeling rental shack right 
there.  We're like "Eh, we better start getting dressed." They had a 
private island off of Nassau. We had rented the whole island so we 
were all naked all the time. Bodysurfing naked, oh my gosh. To be 
able to do that at that  time was the most luxurious thing you could 
ever imagine.  
 Even now, when people are like, "Oh, do you want to go on a 
cruise," and I'm— I could not go on a het cruise. I just couldn't do it.  
It just isn't the same after having experienced that. You didn't have 
to worry about what you are wearing, and just that whole social 
norms were so different. Then also having been in Eugene for so 
long, and being in this world that people from all over the country 
on the cruise— our table, you get sat at the same table, consisted of 
women from Boston who owned a restaurant chain, very rich. Here 
we were, Podunk, putting on IMRU out of our pocket, working for 
the city. Two women, one was a doctor and one was an 
anesthesiologist. That was our table. They bought $80 bottles of 
wine. This was so foreign to us, amazing women.  
 Also, I always said, "If I saw these people on the street, I would 
never know they were a lesbian." In Eugene, it was so important to 
be seen as a lesbian. That was our world. I don't know why they 
didn't or if they were still closeted. It was so different to be like, 
"Oh wow. I could be that. I could be a lesbian and be that."  I could 
be a lesbian and wear heels. I could wear makeup. It was so foreign 
to me because I had been a separatist dyke, wearing men's clothes. 
Then I came here, and you were wearing flannels, and 
Birkenstocks, and not shaving. To see that was like, "Wow." It was 
really different. Also, to see butch-femme couples, really different. I 
honestly still feel, sometimes, constrained by that in Eugene, still, 
which is so interesting.  
Raiskin:  What do you mean?  
Silvers:  Well, I then moved to the other side. I wouldn't necessarily call 
myself femme, but I spent many years wearing heels and dressing  
up. Partly, I liked that. I went to fashion school. I loved clothes. I 
had a job that didn't required that of me, but it was okay to do that, 
and so it was fun. It was like dress-up. I definitely wouldn't wear 
that to a lesbian event. I would never. Even now, today, I brought 
my big red bag in. I probably wouldn't wear that to a lesbian picnic 
or a potluck. It's so funny. I still feel constrained by that. I don't 
know why. It's an interesting thing.  
 It might be because a lot of my friends are still from that time and 
that they still subscribe to some of those kind of values of— 
dressing up is seen as selling out and you're trying to look pretty. 
There's this kind of judgment around it. It's interesting. It is an 
interesting thing to experience that.  
 At that time, it was like, "Wow." Also, I would also say— I say this 
to friends, and mostly to straight people. I'm still offended when 
people think I'm straight, super offended. Yet, nowadays, you 
never know, right? I just am like, "I'm offended when people 
assume I'm straight." They're like, "Well— " I said, "You shouldn't 
assume anything." Then especially when you say you have kids, 
they really assume that.  
 I remember when Emma and Callie  were little, and I'd be out in the 
public with just them. I'd be walking around, like, "People think I'm 
a heterosexual woman, and I'm a housewife. I don't like this! I don't 
like this!" That was always funny. Even though there are so many 
years of my life that I was closeted, there are many years where I  
was like, "I'm not going to be closeted. You can't make  me closeted. 
I am not— " I really wanted to be out, and I really was in your face.  
Long:  Can you talk about when you and your partner decided to have 
children?  
Silvers:  Yes. It was interesting. When my mother finally came to terms with 
my lesbianism, it was sadly when I was in college. We were talking 
about that and she said, "Your job is to have children.” And f I was 
lesbian, I couldn't have children.  At that time, it didn't seem 
possible so that seemed kind of like, "Yes, true, that I can't have 
children but, it's not my job." Even she admittedly, sadly, that if she 
had a choice, she wouldn't have had children, which is why I 
became involved with Planned Parenthood.  
 I never thought about having kids. Then as I went through school 
and started working in— I started working in recreation a little bit 
and working around kids. I realized, "Oh, I kind of like kids." My 
sister had children young. I ended up nannying for my aunt in L.A. 
with her kids. I realized, "Oh, I actually kind of like kids and would 
like to have kids in my life."  
 Sue and I, we talked about it, but there was still a lot of "not okay" 
about it and not— we couldn't get married. There were so many 
things and still needed to be somewhat closeted. My mom knew. 
My dad didn't. You couldn't talk  about it in public with my family. 
There was just all this stuff that kind of put some pressure on it, 
like, "Oh, I don't know if I want to go through this."   
 Also, economically, we weren't sure that it was the smart thing to 
do. Then we just finally decided to do it. Also, women were doing 
it in the city. You were hearing more about it. You were seeing how 
possible it was. Tools became available. Then we were also a part of 
a group. I can't remember what we called that group. Debora 
Landforce was a therapist in town and she had created a lesbian 
support group for— what  did she call— I can't remember what she 
called it. Her idea was, we always support people through 
breakups. We don't support women, lesbians, or people through 
staying together. She created  this group.  
Raiskin:  The Happy Lesbian Couples?  
Silvers:  Yes, that was it, the Happy Lesbian Couples. Thank you. We 
created this group. There  was a cohort. We went through sessions 
with her. She did sessions about financial planning and the seven-
year itch. You know, like relationships ended after seven years, and 
having kids.  All of those things— how to navigate families, and 
being out or not, and holidays, and all of that stuff. She also had 
done a big thing around home for the holidays, around being 
queer, because it was so hard to go home for the holidays.  
Long:  What was her name again?  
Silvers:  Debora Landforce.  
Long:  Is she still in Eugene?  
Silvers:  I think she moved to Corvallis.   
Raiskin:  That's such an interesting project.  
Silvers:  Yes, it was really cool. That group actually ended up— most of 
those couples— there  were two out of all of us that did not, but 
most of us ended up having children all around the same time. 
That kind of helped.  Having that support, and seeing it being 
possible, and people having created the networks and the way to 
do it— we didn't have to navigate finding the doctor and figure out 
those things. It made it much more possible.  
 Sue, at that time, had been in her job for a while. I had just started 
mine so we thought it would be better if she started first. Plus, she's 
a little bit older than I am. We had decided that we didn't want to 
have a donor that we knew. Just didn't really want to complicate 
things, and also— it was also cheapest.  To go to a donor bank and it 
took a lot of time, we were both kind of practical around  it, "Let's 
just do this as easy as we can."  
 We went to the doctor, and they had a donor bank that they could 
get to easy. It wasn't very expensive. You just put down some 
attributes and that was it. We  didn't have to pour through catalogs. 
Are they smart? Was their GPA— all these things, not interesting to 
us. We just wanted to get pregnant. We watched other people do 
that.  
 It's interesting, as our children have gotten older, the fallout— I 
think, everybody sees some fallout of our choices at that time. I'm 
not saying negative fallout. You just see what's happening with  
that.  It was interesting. I would say, also at that time, even though 
we'd been together for a while, our relationship wasn't great. I  
think sometimes it was kind of like, "Let's do this like most— " we 
were just like heterosexuals. It's good to have a baby and maybe 
that'll help.  
 You're looking back. You're like, "That was probably not smart." 
We had Emma. We knew we wanted our kids to  be biologically 
linked. Actually, when Sue was pregnant, because of all of the 
intervention we did, using a doctor, doing fertility, she took fertility 
medication, you do a lot of ultrasounds, so you know a lot more 
than most people do when they're trying  to get pregnant, the 
heterosexuals. We knew right away that she was pregnant with 
twins, which sent us into a tailspin of tizzy, like, "Oh my God. 
We're not planning for this. Oh my God. We're not ready. Oh my 
God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Who has  another 
stroller?"  
 I mean, we literally— I don't know how far along she was but not 
that far along. We were already trying to collect things. Oh my 
God. Oh my God. Oh my God. Also, trying to buy a house. These 
are crazy things. You hear people say, "The hardest things you  go 
through in your life,  baby, divorce, buying a house, death, 
moving—" do them all at once. Why not?  
 Then not long into her pregnancy, she ended up not— one of those, 
whatever you would call them at that time, was not viable. She 
ended up being only pregnant with one, which was both sad and  
relieving. It's an interesting experience, to have that feeling of like, 
"Oh my God. Thank God," and then also know you lost something.  
 Sue had a fairly easy pregnancy, which was kind of impressive. We 
had friends who had had babies.  We had people before us and 
people who were pregnant at the same time, which was so amazing 
to have this support group, have clothes passed on, to have 
furniture passed on. Economically, it made it so much easier. We 
did not have to start from scratch.  
 We had support. I didn't have a relationship with my parents at 
that time, so I didn't have familial support. I didn't have a grandma 
around to do daycare. I didn't have siblings around to help out or 
ask for help. Sue's parents hadn't died at that time, but they were 
older and lived far away. Her brother was in Colorado, also, so we 
didn't have that kind of thing that a lot of people do, or seek, or 
used to.  
 Having that safety net and experience— it was also very, not 
isolating, but insulating.  We had a cocoon of a community that, 
when people saw us outside of that, they're like, "Oh my gosh. Isn't 
this hard?" It's like, "No. Why would this be hard?" Well, other 
women in this world— lesbians were having babies in isolated 
areas where they did not have this. You would read stories of 
women losing their children because they separated, or not, and 
they lived in states where it was legal to take those babies away. 
That was so foreign to us.   
 With ours, when Emma was born at that time, in order for me to 
become a biological— or, adopted parent, legally, there was this 
whole thing around— she had to give up her rights as parent 
because she was really the only parent. We didn't want to do that. 
Then there was some loopholes that  we were trying to work 
through. I would have to go through an adoption process as if I 
was adopting a baby that I didn't know.  
 They'd have to come do this home study. We had an attorney, and 
we're going through all of this. Well, once in my life, my 
procrastination paid off. Along comes a second baby. We knew we 
wanted to have two. We knew we did not want to raise an only 
child. We decided to have another baby two years later. We wanted 
them to be fairly close together. We had already purchased sperm 
from  the same donor. It was being held. I started to go through the 
process. I got pregnant.  
 Growing up, I had the wackiest period ever, horrible, messy, ugly, 
always. Started when I was ten, never ended that way, just 
constant, constant, constant, horrible periods. I knew it was going 
to be challenging because I had a cycle every eighteen, fifteen  days. 
We went right away, straight to fertility. Didn't do any messing 
around with that. Why waste time?  
 I got pregnant right away and actually ended up having a 
miscarriage almost at the end of my first trimester, which was very 
traumatic. I was on a plane. We were flying back. Emma was pretty 
young. I was staying home with her. We got home. I didn't know  
what was going on. I ended up spontaneously having this 
miscarriage and not having to go in to have anything done.  
 Also, medically, there was no support. I mean, here I was, a lesbian, 
pregnant. When I called the doctor—emergency—they didn't really 
want to help. It was really weird. They were just like, "Stay home." 
Nothing, nothing for pain, nothing— it was horrible. That was 
hard. Then we had to wait. The doctor we were working with was 
like, "Well, we'll see if you can get pregnant again." I did. We had 
our second baby. That was Callie. Emma was this amazing kid, 
baby. Our friends were like, "Uh!" because she was so good. As 
long as you were holding her, Emma was so good. Slept, and was 
easy. We could go anywhere with her, anywhere. We went to 
music concerts. We traveled. She was amazing.  
 I was performing. WYMPROV! was performing. She went 
everywhere we went. We performed all over and Emma went 
along. Then Callie came along, and it was not quite the same thing. 
From the get-go, she was a bit challenging. I ended up also having 
gallbladder surgery two weeks— or actually gallstones, two weeks 
after having her. For a few months, it was a little challenging. I was 
sick. They didn't diagnose it for three months. I didn't have surgery 
until— she was born in September. I didn't have surgery until late 
November.  
 She was crying all the time. People would have to come over and 
take care of her. I was home on maternity leave with a toddler 
dealing with all of this. I think it was you, Julee, who wished that  
we would have a boy because Emma was such a great kid and 
supposedly, that was because she was a girl. Well, we had Callie. 
She humbled as parents, for sure. She's an amazing kid, but 
definitely the opposite of what we were experiencing with Emma. 
If Emma's like, "Emma, don't do that," and she wouldn't. Callie  was 
like, "Don't do that," "I'm going to do that."  She was in everything, 
challenging everything, pushing every boundary you ever had, and 
also, just so strong-willed.  
 I always said, "If she made it to adulthood, she would be amazing. 
She just might not make it." So we had two kids, which was also 
unusual. A lot of our friends had one. Still, I mean, that group of 
people, pretty much had one for a long time. If they had a second 
one, it was many years later. We had two toddlers. What are they, 
two years, four months apart? I was home for six months with 
Callie, which was amazing, and I loved it. I actually didn't want to 
go back to work, which was kind of surprising because I was way 
more out there. I was performing and doing all these things, and 
Sue was a little  more quiet. They were like, "Do you really want to 
stay home?" I'm like, "Oh, I'm having fun."  
 I went back to work. We stayed together until they were five and 
seven. Even then, I never worked full-time. I don't know how 
people did it. It was really challenging to have two full-time 
working parents. It was expensive, number one, to pay for daycare. 
Then Callie was just super challenging. Daycare didn't work very 
well for her. I ended up quitting— or through budget cuts and  
stuff, I ended up not working and started working from home. I 
was doing web development at that time.  
 That really worked out for us, for me to be home with Callie, and 
Emma was still going to daycare a little bit. Then when they went 
to school, her transition was much better. We didn't have a great 
relationship, but wasn't great for a while. Then when we broke up, 
we thought for sure it would  rock these kids' worlds.  Ugh, I didn't 
want to do that to them. It actually wasn't that— I know it was. I 
know it was, but it didn't impact them the way we thought it 
would.  
 It wasn't easy, but we tried really hard to keep the kids central and 
not fight over that. There were challenges with that. We did not 
have the benefit of law. Oh, so going back to my procrastination. By 
that time, there was a lesbian in the state senate that had passed a 
law that we could adopt— same-sex couples, same-sex parent 
could adopt without being a full adoption. It was more like a 
stepparent.  
Long:  Second-parent adoption.  
Raiskin:  It was more like a stepparent than it had been previously.  
Silvers:  Previously, it was like I was a new parent adopting a kid I didn't 
know. This was like a heterosexual couple getting married. They 
were blending their families, and they could adopt if the other 
parent gave up their rights,  or the person was gone, or whatever. I 
was able to adopt Emma and she adopted Callie, so we were  
legally their parents. They were biologically linked. When we broke 
up, I can't tell you how many people asked us, "Are you going to 
take Callie? Emma's going  to live with Sue and Callie's going to live 
with you?" I'm like, "What are you talking about?" I was no more 
connected to Callie than I was to Emma. There never has been a 
feeling of like, “She's not mine.” What does come into play is when 
we visit my family, and Emma's like, "Technically, they're not 
mine." "Technically speaking," she says it jokingly. That is a joke 
with us, is like, "Yes, technically speaking, I'm not related to them."  
 We had this thing where it's like, we knew we wanted to keep them 
central. As hard as our breakup was at that time, it was like, this is 
not going to happen, but we did not have the benefit of the law. I 
did not have the benefit of the law. At that time, I was a stay-at-
home parent, working from home, barely— I didn't have health 
insurance. I had it through Sue's work, which was pretty 
impressive for the city at that time. I wasn't working full-time. If I 
was, it was contract work. I was kind of in this place of, like many 
heterosexual women find themselves.  I'm a stay-at-home mom, and 
I'm getting divorced, and I don't have a job. I had not had the 
benefit of accruing a retirement for many years. I'd been out of the 
workforce. The unemployment rates were really high at that time. 
Emma was born in '94 and Callie was in '96. This was, what, 2001-
ish, 2002.  
 We had this house. We'd built an apartment for her mom. We had 
this huge mortgage, extra two mortgages, because we built this  
apartment. It was tough. It wasn't easy financially either because 
there was no law that protected me. I could have— you so see this 
with women. I could have pushed for child support, but I knew 
that would be a fight with the kids.  It was fair, but I couldn't do 
that. We went our own ways and managed through that. We used a 
mediator. There was no legal proceeding really, except for writing 
up a custody agreement or how we were going to manage the kids. 
We had equal custody. We had a  schedule, week on, week off, or it 
changed over the years as they got older.  
 Over time, in healing, we have become amazing friends and close 
parents. We parented them throughout all of that. We were their 
parents. We did it together. It was challenging at times. She was 
making more money than I was and made decisions around 
finances that I would have never made. All of those things come 
into play. All of that has changed. It's kind of gone the opposite 
direction. It's just— at that point, you have to— water under the 
bridge. Things just move on and life happens.  
 There was a time when Sue and I were at a place where we were 
both kind of in this weird housing place. We were like, "Well, 
maybe we should just live together.” Find a house that was 
upstairs, downstairs, or— Actually, even at one time, we thought 
about having a house that we moved in and out of and the kids 
would stay because it was— they didn't complain about it but it 
wasn't fun for them, moving in and out. They  weren't always good 
about having something in both houses so they'd have to pack up  
all their crap. These suitcases— they’d  live out of them. That, I felt 
bad about. We tried, but they were like, "No, it's just easier this 
way." Haul their shit back and forth. We were like, "Maybe we 
should have a house that we share and we move in and out of." 
Then we were like, "Maybe we should live together."  
 It was at that time, Emma goes, "Are you guys crazy? No." She's 
like, "No. That would never work." I'm like, "Why?" "Oh my gosh. 
You guys are  so different. That would never work." I think partly, 
because they didn't want us being close, because I would influence 
her and she'd influence me.  They got away with a lot more in her 
household than they did in mine. Then we might figure out that 
they needed to do more, do more chores. Over time, we just figured 
that whole thing out. I think it was you guys that said, "You guys 
are the poster parents for breaking up."  
 I got healthy. I was training for triathlons. I was probably the most 
fit I had ever been. I was happy. I had time to myself. Going into it, 
I thought, "Oh, there's no way I could imagine." I had watched 
other, mostly heterosexual couples divorce in that the mom having 
to not have her kids at times. I'm like, "How do you do that?" You 
just do. You get used to it. There's a couple of days of transition of, 
what do I do? Who am I? I'm not tethered. They tether me. They 
keep me— they  give me purpose. They give me structure.  
 Over time, it became like, this is amazing. I have time. I have time 
to read. I did a lot of this when they were little. I don't know how I 
did. I went to graduate school. I got my graduate degree, all these  
things, when they were little and I was single. I honestly don't 
know how I did it. A lot of coffee.  
Long:  Can you talk about LMNOP?  
Silvers:  Yes. Through this— 
Long:  What does that stand for?  
Silvers:  I was trying to remember. Do you remember?  
Raiskin:  Lesbian Moms— 
Silvers:  Lesbians, Mom— 
Raiskin:  and Other People.  
Silvers:  Oh, “N” Other People. Part of that, Happy Lesbian Couples 
groups— we kind of, after we had kids, we started this group. It 
expanded to other people that we knew or had kids and kind of 
filled that hole of IMRU and One Common Thread.  We went from 
being single or coupled women with no kids doing all these 
women's things and now we're doing parenting things. We had 
holiday events.  
Raiskin:  Halloween.  
Silvers:  Halloween. Oh, my gosh. My memories are really Easter and being 
at community centers, and especially at Hilyard Center, and it 
being sunny, and being outside, and having all these kids come 
together. It's funny because I don't think the kids knew what we  
had created.  They were just kids. They didn't know we were any 
different than any other group of kids that came together  to do a 
Easter egg hunt.  They didn't know what we had created.  
Raiskin:  How many kids, would you say, would come together?  
Silvers:  Oh my gosh. Twenty, thirty, forty— I mean, there were a lot of 
kids, kids we didn't even know.  Oh, which was so fabulous. Also, 
when women moved into town, this was a place where— that was 
the other thing. How do we find each other? We didn't know how 
to find each other. This was an opportunity for that, which what 
One Common Thread was, and so was IMRU, and so was 
WYMPROV!  It was a place that there were activities and events 
that women could find each other because at that time, women's 
bookstores had kind of gone away. The bars had kind of shifted to 
being more mixed. There wasn't a place that was ours where we 
could find support and we still needed support. We still were not 
completely mainstreamed. We still were not— we had a neighbor 
who was actually a friend of somebody I knew. This person knew 
we had somebody in common.  
 She had  a little boy who was Emma's age. She lived across the 
street from us. She would not acknowledge our existence if we 
walked by. Yeah. So, we still needed that support. We still needed a 
place where we were okay.  Even as out as we were, it still wasn't 
completely accepted. The kids, I know— I think, even to this day, 
they don't know what we created.  They just never knew anything 
different. I do remember, when we would travel, having  
experiences. Sue's family lived in Durango, Colorado, which is a 
super, super, small, little town. They were really poor and they 
lived in a campground. We would stay there. We'd be at the 
playground. I remember one time, a little girl— some  of these 
experiences happened.  The little girl said, "Where's your dad?" 
Emma looked at her like, "What? What? Dad?" We're like, "Oh, 
how's this going to go down? What's going to happen here?" 
because we had built this little bubble in Eugene of comfort and 
protection.  
 Even then, people are like, "Don't you think that's wrong for your 
kids? Don't you think that's wrong and they won't know what to 
do when they're out in the world?" I'm like, "That is fine with me. 
I'm not worried about that." In those moments, we'd be like, 
"What's going to happen?" We'd be like, "She's doesn't have a dad." 
"Well, why don't you have a dad?" Emma was kind of like, "What's 
a dad?" I mean, she knew dads because her friends had dads. It was 
kind of funny. She was like, "Why does that matter?" Those were 
interesting.  
 Oftentimes kids didn't understand, but sadly, they came with this 
weird assumption, bias because of what the only thing they had 
experienced, that their world was this. Even then, I was always 
kind of like, so many kids don't have dads and it's not because  their 
moms are lesbians.  Why is this weird? We had created this space 
for our kids that it was perfectly normal to have two moms. They  
didn't know anything other than that. I mean, they went to school. 
They went to public schools. It was not weird to them.  
Raiskin:  How was it for you as a lesbian parent in the schools in Eugene?  
Silvers:  Well, it depended on what school you were going to.  South 
Eugene, super liberal, progressive, way more— a lot of more 
progressive, liberal people sought— we have open enrollment, so 
they sought South. They sought South Eugene elementary schools 
or other schools. It wasn't weird. I never experienced anything and 
I don't think the kids did. They went to Spencer Butte. I had 
experience at Spencer Butte because I had gone in as WYMPROV! 
to teach improv to some of the classes. People had experience with 
us that way. It was not foreign but it certainly wasn't the same in all 
high schools. I think that at, maybe, a Bethel School or North 
Eugene, it would have been different for them.  
 It definitely affected our decisions in house buying.  People either 
moved to south Eugene school district or when you were looking to 
move, you sought housing there. Unfortunately, it's expensive and 
so that was also a consideration.  You had to have the means to do 
that. Economically, there was disparity in that. It's not cheap to get 
pregnant as a lesbian at that time. It's interesting. I don't think they 
ever had experiences that were— if they did, they didn't tell me. 
Where I was more challenged was more around politics.  
 I've thought about this project and thinking about our kids. I'm 
super politically aware. We were super politically active. We  
knocked doors. We marched. We did all kinds of things. I did this 
encirclement. I was on the board of Planned Parenthood. I went to 
D.C. I lobbied. I'd done all those things. Emma was a part of 
Planned Parenthood at one time but she was— she did her part but 
neither of them are all that politically lit. I'm like, "What happened? 
Why aren't you a feminist? What did I do wrong?" It's almost like 
we thought they would get this by osmosis.  
 I think Lynn Pinckney said this. We never told our stories. We 
thought they knew them by living it.  Because we had created this 
space that was so normal to them, they didn't know it was 
different. They didn't pay attention. It wasn't a story.  It was their 
story, so it wasn't a story to tell. It was so interesting to look back at 
that and then watch Emma. Politically, I'm the one taking her to 
these things. You're a millennial. Get your ass out there. She's living 
in Florida. I'm calling her, "You got to get on some phone banks. 
You and your friends need to start calling Marco Rubio. You have 
to do this." "I know, Mom. I know." I'm like, "Seriously, here's their 
numbers. What happened? This is your life I'm fighting for." It's so 
interesting.  
 I was recently in Alabama. Emma and I went and did the civil 
rights thing.  Went to the museums, went to Birmingham and 
Montgomery, did the Equal Justice Museum. I am just— it’s 
intense. She's doing the drive-by museum walk.  Some of it, we 
talked about it. Some of it, they're learning, especially in the 
programs that's she's in. She's doing higher ed administration.  
They're learning much more about diversity and historic— what 
historically has happened around student, and equity, and 
enrollment. She's been in the South. She's getting more and more 
understanding of that. Living outside of Eugene, what an eye 
opener.  
 We know racism. We know it's there, but we don't know racism  
until you go to the South and you see that. Some of it, she gets 
through school. It was so inspiring.  I'm like, "I'm going to go home 
and I'm going to— " I have an Airbnb. "—I'm going to go home and 
put up posters." She's like, "That doesn't sound like a very good 
business decision, Mom." I'm like, "Oh my gosh. What happened? 
What happened? Walk your talk." She doesn't like to make waves.  
 While they were growing up, that was probably more challenging 
for them, were my politics, just in general, not necessarily around 
queer identity.  They had gone to private school, first year in public 
school. They come home, and they're like, "They make us stand for 
the Pledge of Allegiance." I'm like, "What? What?" They're like, 
"Yes." I'm like— "We don't know what we're saying," because they 
had done minute of silence, and say a prayer for peace,  conflict 
resolution. This whole Pledge of Allegiance and standing for the 
flag was news to them.  "Mom, don't say anything." I'm like, "No." I 
said, "You don't know what you're saying, right?" I said, "Have you 
asked?" "Oh no. We're not supposed to talk about politics at 
school." I'm like, "Oh, no you didn't. They're making you say the 
Pledge of Allegiance. That is political."   
Long:  What school was that?  
Silvers:  They were up at Edgewood.  That's where the being political was a 
little uncomfortable for them. Then I tried to do as much as I could 
in the schools, and do things, and participate, do field trips. I 
remember, at Spencer Butte, going and watching presentations. 
One of the girls goes, "Oh my gosh. That's so gay." Emma's like— 
She puts her hands on me. She's like, "Mom, don't. Just don't." I'm 
like— I am— "No, Emma." She's like, "Mom." I'm like, "Okay." I 
was like, "So—. " I can't remember her name, Rachel. "So, Rachel, 
when you say that, what do you mean?" Emma's just waiting. I 
know she's super tense. What's going to happen? What's going to 
go down here? I'm not going to attack her but at home, I do. Ar, ar, 
ar, ar, ar! She thinks that's what's going to come out.  
 I'm like, "When you say that, what do you mean? That sometimes 
doesn't feel very good to everybody. I know that's something you 
all say." That part of what we created for these kids as they were 
growing up is probably what I feel is my biggest disappointment or 
resentment. I'm like, "What did we do? We missed this opportunity 
to raise these kids." I know that's not true for all kids but I do kind 
of watch. "What happened? Why didn't you get this?"  
 There was even a point at which Callie— Callie was like me when I 
was growing up. Somebody finally pointed this out to me, that I 
never felt like I belonged in my family. I remember reading a book 
about a girl who found her adoption papers and then it all kind of 
made sense to her why she always felt so different. I searched for  
my adoption papers my entire growing up, right, because I was just 
like, "I don't belong here. These people are so weird." I think Callie 
felt that way. She felt very different. She never wanted to be like us 
and she's still that way. As much as she loves family, and family's 
important to her, and she wants to know who her donor is, she still 
doesn't feel like she belongs.  
 There was a time when she was in middle school and they were 
having to do debate, maybe? She was debating that abortion was 
bad, anti-abortion. I was like, "What are you  talking about?" She 
bought it, hook, line, and sinker. I was so upset. I was like, "How 
do I handle this?" I didn't know what to do. I tried to talk to her, not 
an easy thing with Callie. I just tried to explain that one of the 
challenges with people that  are giving you this information is 
they're not giving you both sides of it. Oftentimes, they are also the 
people who don't want to provide birth control, which is really 
what prevents the need for an abortion. If you promote birth 
control, then fine. I get that you don't think abortion is a good idea. 
I don't love the idea of abortion, but it's necessary.  
 That was super hard for me, to have this kid of this kind of 
ideological difference, so different. It would be different if she was 
like, "I want to go to church." That was hard enough when Emma 
went to church with friends. This was like, I don't know if I can do 
this. I'm not prepared for this as a parent. That ended. She went to 
school in Kansas and she flipped to the other way.  She was around 
all of these, in this red state, when Trump was elected.  She has  
come around in some ways, but no, not active, but her ideas have 
changed.  
 We created this environment of comfort and sameness that was 
good but it also has its— the flip side of that is they don't 
understand the struggle or why it's different and why they need  to 
keep fighting for it.  Same thing with Roe v. Wade— they  don't 
know anything about Roe v. Wade and they can't imagine that it 
would ever go away. They don't know if they're not tuned in.  
Raiskin:  Do you imagine yourself staying in Eugene?  
Silvers:  Interesting, I never thought I would. I wanted to leave so badly for 
so long. Then kids came along and I knew I didn't want to move 
them. I moved a fair amount when they were little anyway. I sold 
this big house we had, and rented, and I didn't have an income that 
I could buy a house for a long time. I moved a fair amount and they 
didn't like that because they were moving back and forth, too. 
When they got older— I wasn't going to move and I wasn't going to 
leave them. I didn't think it would be fair to move them away from 
Sue and she was certainly not going to move.  
 I stayed. Then when they finally were done with high school, I was 
kind of ready to go. I thought, "I'm going to leave. I want to go  live 
in a city. I want a different opportunity," but I got a job that I really 
love, and so here I am. Also, as I've gotten older, I thought, "It's not 
easy to start over, finding friends, and creating a community."  
Raiskin:  Being recognized at the grocery store.   
Silvers:  Right.  I'm kind of happy. Eugene has changed in a way that I think 
is— fills some of my needs. My needs aren't the same anymore. I 
like being in my house by myself without the kids.  
Raiskin:  Is there any story, or question, or theme that  we haven't asked you 
or that you haven't covered that you thought ahead that, "I really 
want to say this"?  
Silvers:  I just think it's so important, when talking about the lesbian 
history.— for me, coming here  was really my awakening.  Even 
though I had been out, and I had girlfriends, and I had been going 
out to bars and stuff, I still was fairly closeted. My world was very 
either those people or it was gay men. It was so small. Coming here 
opened my eyes in ways that I had no idea was happening. It 
became very lesbian focused. Even to this day, I don't have many 
male friends.  
 The men I know are from work, even gay men. I know they're here, 
but it's not nearly the same as the women's community. I know 
coming into this community was hard for some women after it 
became so kind of cemented. What a amazing gift we had at that 
time, that Eugene had that energy of women's community, and 
happening. Also, the OCA tried so hard to make us go away, and it  
actually brought us out.  It gave us a purpose to come together. 
Raiskin:  Do you see a lesbian community now or has it dissipated some?  
Silvers:  No, no. I do, because I have one.  It's interesting. My world is work 
and my lesbian friends, really. I have friends, even though they're  
lesbians, most of their friends are straight. That is so foreign to me. 
Sorry. It's so foreign to me. It's also still uncomfortable, even 
though most of the people I work with are heterosexual and I'm 
out. It's not a big deal.  
Raiskin:  Where do you work now?  
Silvers:  I work at the city. I'm very out. I'm out politically. It's still super 
weird for me to hang out with straight people. I much prefer being 
with my lesbian community. It just is. Yes, I have a lesbian 
community, but if you walked into this town, I think it'd be hard to 
find.  If you  moved here, it would be hard to find. Maybe that's my 
perspective because I don't need it. It may be out there.  
Raiskin:  Those cultural spaces are really different.  
Silvers:  Yes, yes. Campus is different,  very different. That experience is 
really different, to see— 
Raiskin:  Do you know younger lesbian, gay kids in town?  
Silvers:  That's an interesting question. I don't. I work downtown. I see 
queer kids, trans. I mean, you see the gamut. It's kind of one of 
those things. Back in the day when you saw somebody that was 
like you, you made this acknowledgement. I'm like, "They don't 
know me. They don't acknowledge me." It's kind of funny. It's 
weird. I'm not sure that they need it, but I think they do because we 
hear it.  There's still this thing of, it's going to get better. It's like, 
"Oh, I'm here. Hello?" You walk by and you're like, "You're holding  
hands. Hello." Again, I'm like, "God Damn It. They think I'm 
straight. I’m wearing my heels." It's funny.  
 I think— it’s interesting to hear that there's still this struggle. It's so 
sad when you also see such outness, such outness. How is it 
possible that kids are still queer? Emma had the experience. She 
went to the U of O. She had the experience where the men she met 
ended up coming out to her in college. She was like, "Mom, I don't 
know what I'm doing to them." I was like, "Well, maybe that's 
because you get it." A lot of young men came out to her for the— 
that was their coming out, which I thought was super cool, but also 
sad that they still weren't out to their families. How is this possible 
today?  
 It still happens, even if there's so much outness. She joined a 
sorority. Was not something I would have ever thought would be 
something I'd be okay with.  Not that I would tell her no. I went to a 
lot of events and hung out. Such a different experience.  I actually 
felt comfortable in that environment, which I never thought I 
would. I can pass pretty easily, though. I can pass with moms way 
easier than Sue ever could. Kids play sports. At the end of the year, 
or even when you go to games, she was like, "I hate going to those 
games. I don't know what to talk to— " She's like, "I can't talk to the 
moms."  
 I pass with moms all the time. I also could pass with dads.  I could 
back and forth. I loved doing dads weekends at the sorority.  Oh my 
gosh, so much fun.  I could do the dad thing. They had lesbian  
sorority members. Her sorority, nationally, is the first one that had 
a trans member pledge. She was so proud of that. Things have 
changed a lot but there are still challenges. I don't know personally. 
But I know through her, I get to experience that.  
Raiskin:  Anything you would tell a young person having lived through 
your time?  
Silvers:  Well, obviously the struggle's still not over. Be  thankful for what 
we did. Don't take it for granted, especially in these times.  In this 
time of Trump and this administration, we are so going backwards. 
That really scares me. What scares me is that it's such a slow drip. 
There's this weird progression but what we're seeing is this 
backward progression in ways that I'm not sure the younger people 
are paying attention to or see. Maybe they do, but that's— 
Raiskin:  Like what?  
Silvers:  I think the anti-abortion is a huge one. When I was on the board 
and I was the president of the board of Planned Parenthood, I had 
amazing experiences. I met Nancy Pelosi, Cecile Richards. I mean, I 
did all of that, super amazing. You didn't see a whole lot of lesbians 
in that world but there are some. People would be like, "Why are 
you such a champion of abortion?" I'm like, "It's women's rights. 
This isn't about abortion. This is about women's right to define their 
destiny."  It's everything. They support lesbians. They provide 
health services for everybody, but this is really about— they’re  
providing empowerment for women.   
 The abortion thing, a whole women stuff, everything, every sexist, 
everything— that is our future. I don't think people understand 
that going backwards in that way moves us— giving men power, it 
shifts the balance. We haven't even created balance and it shifts it 
back. This whole thing that's happening underground, not 
necessarily, but in a whole other world, it will be impacted by it.  
While you may not need an abortion, you need the right to  define 
your future.  
Long:  Have you thought about aging in Eugene, what that is going to be 
like?  
Silvers:  That's funny. We're not aging  [laughs]. It's interesting. I see friends 
who are retired. Again, a lot of my friends are a little bit older than 
I am.  I'm watching them retire, and I'm like, "I can't imagine doing 
that,” but then I can.  I watch them more thinking about their aging. 
I don't think about it much because I feel super healthy. I'm still 
super active. I run. I'm physically fit. I do lots of things. I don't feel 
like I'm aging like I see other people age, so that concern isn't there 
yet. Watching them, I watch it, and I think, "What's going to 
happen? How is this going go?" They don't have children, so they 
would say, "We have that, our kids, to fall back on." I'm not sure if 
that's true.  
 I haven't really thought about that much. We joke about it.  Oh, 
we're going to buy a house, or everybody's going to have a trailer 
and move on the land, or I don't know. I don't know. I don't think  
about that. My mom's going to be eighty. She's super healthy and 
truckin’. I'm like, "I don't have to worry about this for a while."  
Raiskin:  Well, anything else you want to— 
Silvers:  I don't think so.  I said a lot.  
Raiskin:  All right.  
Long:  Thank you so much.  
Silvers: Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much. It was great.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  