Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral history project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Marlene Drescher on July 31, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Library's recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies.  The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Marlene,  please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
Drescher:  I agree.   
Long:  Thank you. So let's just begin with a very straightforward first 
question. Can you please tell us where you were born, where you 
grew up and something about your early background? 
Drescher:  I was born and grew up in Port Huron, Michigan, which is about 
sixty  miles north of Detroit. And my background is that my parents 
are both Jewish, and they really were— my father was an 
immigrant from the Ukraine and my mother, also from the 
Ukraine, was the first  born on this continent. Her older sisters were 
born there. It was pretty much a first generation kind of a thing.  
Raiskin:  What year were you born?  
Drescher:  Oh, March 1951.  
Long:  And do you have brothers or sisters?  
Drescher:  I had three brothers. Two of them survive. 
Raiskin: Okay. And are you— did you grow up there your whole growing 
up time?  
Drescher:  I did, until eighteen. I went to University of Michigan and later 
went to law school in Boston and lived in Chicago and San 
Francisco along the way.  
Raiskin:  When did you know you were lesbian?  
Drescher:  Well, I knew for sure, by first year of college, but I had crushes on 
girls in high school. I don't think that I thought of them as sexual at 
the time.  So first year of college 1969-1970.   
Raiskin: And do you have a sense of what your parents would have thought 
at the time?  
Drescher:  I actually have more than a sense. I told them and my mother 
freaked out and said it was because I smoked marijuana. And my 
father asked me why I was taking all those women's studies classes. 
It was very difficult for them because my grandmother, as she 
aged, lived in the home of my aunt. It was a very traditional Jewish 
family on both sides. And so much changed in our generation. I 
think it was really difficult for them, and difficult for me, too, of 
course. They weren't exactly the “Call Me by Your Name” kind of 
adult figures.  
Long: What did you study in college?  
Drescher:  I started in anthropology. And I was a member of Students for a 
Democratic Society. I started studying Poli Sci, but really what I 
studied was what was happening in the streets and among my 
friends. Later, I did drop out of college for a time and later, as a 
result of being arrested a few times in political activities and having 
a crush on the woman lawyer who defended me, I did decide to go 
to law school. And that's what I eventually did. I took the shortest 
path and the most appropriate path for me to a law degree which 
was through Northeastern School of Law which had a co op 
program and was the by far the most lefty approved and certified 
law school and in the nation.   
 And during Law School, I got to work in a number of very political 
situations. Northeastern after the first year, every other quarter, 
you have to be placed in a legal setting.  I got to work with the 
People's Law Office on the murder of Fred Hampton and I got to 
work with the people suing the Chicago police and the FBI for 
illegal surveillance and other unlawful activities and then later with 
the Chicago legal center for battered women, which was one of the 
first legal centers for battered women in the country.  
Long: Well, can we— Before you go on, can we go back to when you were 
a student at the University of Michigan?  
Drescher:  Yes.  
Raiskin:  You said you were arrested. Was that for protest during the Civil 
Rights period or anti-Vietnam? 
Drescher:  Well, both, yeah. I was arrested a few times and then the police— 
The big thing that happened with the police was after I came out, I 
was living in a radical lesbian  collective and the police had received 
a teletype you have to be of a certain age to think of what a teletype 
is, from Detroit saying that we were harboring a black fugitive who 
had won a shootout with the police in Detroit. And they broke 
down our door and threw us out in the snow.  
 Actually, I was sitting on the couch near the  door, and we had a 
baseball bat near the door because there was a motorcycle gang 
living around the corner. And the motorcycle gang had been 
unfriendly to us, we'll say. So, I jumped up from the couch, I heard  
the stomping on the front porch. And then one  kick, I jumped up 
two kicks, I had the baseball bat ready, three kicks, the door hit me 
in the head, my glasses went flying, and a rifle was pointed at me.  
 So, we sued the police and that really was a very interesting thing 
because of course, they were outraged that a bunch of crazy 
lesbians would sue them just for violating our civil rights. And that 
taught me a lot. That helps me learn both about the police who 
arrested us whether we did anything or not. For example, I was 
once in the backseat of a car that was pulled over and the police 
recognized me as one of the plaintiffs and arrested all of us. I was 
arrested for interfering and not listening to a police officer. I don't 
know; we spent the night in jail and then we were  [then there was a 
lesbian lawyer]— someone paid her bail and later had a trial and 
that was a lawyer, I thought, Oh, wow, she's cool, I want to be like 
her. And that's when I decided to go law school. I finished up my 
degree at U  of O  and went down to— 
Raiskin: At University of Michigan. 
Drescher:  Oh yeah, University of Michigan, thanks.  
Raiskin: And did you— were  you— can you describe your radical lesbian 
household and feminism at the time for your community?  
Drescher:  Yeah. Well, this was Ann  Arbor, similar to Eugene, small-ish 
university town, sort of a progressive community— people really 
brought progressive values through the university and outside of 
the university to Ann  Arbor. And it was very close to Detroit. And  
there was a horrible riot in Detroit in ‘67. I mean, it looked like it 
was bombed out. It looked like Dresden after World War II. And 
let's see, you wanted a description of the lesbian collective. We 
were very strong feminists. I had seen them on campus before, and 
I knew one of them through SDS. And I was trying to be straight at 
the time. I was initially in sort of a lefty, hippie collective living 
with my black male lover when I got together with the lesbians 
who previously I'd thought of as sort of scary and why did they 
dress like that? And why they were their— why did they all have 
short haircuts? And then I became friends with them and came to 
terms with my own sexuality. What we did, we were very leftist. 
There was one working class lesbian and she was sort of my hero 
because she was strong and athletic and her hair was really short.  
 And we did karate, we all did karate, and we all decided that we 
would learn nontraditional  skills. So Angie, who is the working 
class one and I decided to go to auto mechanics school and Barb 
decided to become an electrician, which she did become and still is 
an electrician today. And Lynn was a carpenter. We each tried to 
develop these nontraditional  working class skills. And Angie and I 
went to this auto mechanics program. It was largely a court-
referred program, so there were a lot of pretty tough guys in there. 
But Angie was pretty tough, too. It was interesting.  
 I mean, I remember once the guys were surrounding us and asking 
us questions and karate came up. And they were all kind of, "Oh, 
yeah, can you show us some?" We were in a circle— and Angie,  
who is very powerful said, "Yeah, I can show you some." She did a 
series of sidekicks like in a whole circle and they were perfect. And 
they were like all chest high. It was like, they didn't bug us that 
much after that. And later, they became friends. There was an 
abandoned ‘64 Dodge Dart in the backyard of my hippie lefty 
straight commune. Nobody wanted it. And these guys said, "Well, 
let's try to start it." And they took a strong rope and they pulled it 
out. And then it was not an automatic transmission. It was— you 
could lift up from the clutch when it was going and then try to start 
it. And we did that. They were pulling the thing  and I was in the  
driver's seat. And I had my first car. That was like, "Hey, this is—" 
And I love that car. In fact, I wish I still had that car.  
Raiskin:  What car was it?  
Drescher:  It was a ‘64 Dodge Dart and it had push buttons, instead of first, 
second, and third you would push a button or reverse. It was a 
great old car. In fact, Peter DeFazio  used to make commercials with 
his old Dodge Dart. Anyway, does that give you a sense of the 
radical  lesbian collective? We also had— We had a newspaper for a 
time and I don't know there was— we had affinity with SDS and 
we had affinity with a lot of the other political things going on at 
the time.  
Raiskin:  Were there other Jewish women involved in your  collective? 
Drescher:  Yes, Lynn who was taking carpentry classes also is Jewish. And 
yeah, she's a hasbian, she now is married to a man.   
Raiskin: So you finished law school. And what happened after that?  
Drescher:  Actually, my last year in law school, I went to a National Lawyers 
Guild convention in San Francisco. And my older brother had 
moved to Oregon and his second child had just been born. And I 
hadn't been out to Oregon at all yet. And I met my law partner-to-
be, Mike Goldstein and his now they'd call it “administrative 
assistant” at that time, she was the secretary, Connie Newman and 
few others in the law collective. He was the only lawyer. I flew out 
to San Francisco without any idea how I would get to Oregon or 
how long I would stay or any of that stuff.  
 Mike offered me— Mike and Connie offered me a ride. And I got to 
know them— actually, I was going to drive with Connie, that's 
right. And Connie was attacked on the street. It look like sort of a 
mentally ill guy just plowed her in the jaw and she fell 
unconscious. And I took her to the ER and it was one of those 
experiences where it was sort of like automatically you are close to 
this person because  you've gone through this sort of traumatic 
event.  
 And then because Connie was injured she did fly back to Eugene. 
Oh, I had a  good friend in Eugene also. Mike and I drove together 
from San Francisco up to Eugene. We talked politics the whole 
way. And he wanted to have another lawyer in his law collective. I 
mean, he had a couple law students and the secretary. And I saw 
that I would have the opportunity to do a lot of other things here in 
Eugene than I would in Boston. A lot of things that I wanted to do.   
I wanted to do police misconduct and sexual harassment and sex 
discrimination and ADA stuff and all of that stuff. So, yeah, I 
wanted to come out here and that's how I came to Eugene.  
Long: What year was that?  
Drescher:  That was in 1979.  
Raiskin: What did you heard about Eugene before?  
Drescher:  I had heard that it was a lesbian Mecca. It was sort of like 
Northampt on, in Massachusetts. As Northampton was to 
Massachusetts, Eugene was to Oregon. And also, I thought there 
was a lot of crunchy granola and things to pick off bushes that you 
could eat, all of which was true and remains true to this day.  
Raiskin: How did you find the lesbian community when you got here?  
Drescher:  Well, they found me, actually. We were— the law firm was 
Goldstein and Drescher, and Margaret Cormier came to me. There 
were a couple of other lesbian lawyers, but I don't know, they came 
to me and Margaret always referred to it as “Drescher and 
Goldstein.” And she wanted me to represent Starflower and she 
came to me with my very first case, which was a shareholder 
derivative case, a lawsuit against Starflower  by two of the former 
collective members.  
Raiskin:  Could you describe Starflower as you knew it when you first 
encountered it?   
Drescher:  Starflower  was largely a lesbian collective that distributed natural 
foods, herbs and spices across the Northwest. They had a 
warehouse and they had a couple of trucks and they had people 
with forklifts putting cheese in and  out of the cooler and cutting 
cheese  and distributing grains and things like that all over the 
Northwest.  
Raiskin:  What was the case?  
Drescher:  The case was a shareholder derivative suit. Starflower  was actually  
incorporated incorrectly. Another lawyer in town who is a lovely 
person,  she's pretty old and she has disabilities which is also why 
Starflower  probably went to her because they had that values ethic 
of going to someone they could relate to. But she set them up so 
that each member of the collective would receive one share of stock 
for every month they worked at Starflower.  
 The stock was never valued beyond that. There was no financial 
record really of how much the stock, which nobody kept track of  
and no one received a certificate. I think they did keep track of how 
many employees worked how long, but the two people who 
brought the lawsuit, actually, so as someone pointed out to me 
later, were the only two people who ever worked at Starflower  who 
never had a lover at Starflower  [laughs]. It was sort of like that. It 
was like Starflower  was a great incestuous family full of drama, 
and fun and hilarity and drugs and craziness. It was really fun to 
represent them.   
 And even though I was in a way over my head on the shareholder 
derivative suit, and one of the people who was suing was actually 
Margaret Cormier's brother, who was the opposite of Margaret. 
Margaret was beautiful and smart, and ambitious, and could do all 
kinds of business things. And her brother was just kind of— 
suffered I guess, in comparison  to her. So, he was one, and of 
course none of lesbians would sleep with him. And the other one 
was a lesbian  who, none of the other lesbians would sleep with her. 
Raiskin:  What was the outcome of the case?  
Drescher:  We settled for very little, but it chewed up a lot of time. And I mean 
Starflower, put me on retainer, I think I was retained for $600 a 
month, which was crazy because I was also defending them when 
the truckers would nail some kind of sign on the highway and be 
dragged behind the truck for miles. One trucker was arrested when 
she saw a bunch of right wing bumper stickers on several cars and 
pulled over and started ripping them off and she didn't notice these 
cars are parked in front of a police station. That kind of fun stuff.  
 And then, of course, all of the Staries  would come to me with their 
other work too, and eventually I learned how to do it. But also at 
the same time, I always had a police misconduct case, which I 
started taking without realizing how  much work they really were. 
But they were very, very important cases to me, as well as the sex 
discrimination case and sexual harassment cases. Anyway, what 
was that question about?   
Long: Well, I wanted to follow up. If you could provide more— It sounds 
like you were down at Starflower  frequently.  
Drescher:  Yes. 
Long: Can you tell us what a typical day at Starflower  might have been? 
The comings and goings, the friendships, the— 
Drescher:  I never was there for a full day but I can tell you in the morning, 
they would come in and there was a notebook. It was their dreams 
notebook. And you'd think maybe this was dreams for the 
organization, but really, it was their dreams like the night before. 
And everyone would write their dreams in this notebook. And that 
was also the notebook that they wrote the minutes from their 
collective meetings. And every collective member was also a 
member of the Board of Directors. And you can imagine this was 
not the most efficient business-like way to run Starflower.  
Raiskin:  How many employees were there?  
Drescher:  It varied, I think. I'm just guessing, there were contract workers, 
and then there were collective members. And I'm guessing twenty-
something collective members and may be up to ten contract 
workers depending on how the business was going. And both of 
those numbers varied. But Margaret would know for sure.  
Long: I wonder where that dreams and minutes book is.  
Drescher:  Well, funny, you should ask, because during the shareholder 
derivative suit, they requested discovery of Starflower  minutes and  
I had such— I enjoyed this so much— handing over the dream 
book, along  with it during the depositions, Starflower  official 
minutes and imagining what this super straight lawyer would 
think while I would— I mean  these dreams were— anyway.  And  I 
don't know where that is now. The other lawyer might still have 
that, I don't know.  
Long: Yeah, in a law firm somewhere, in a file.  
Drescher:  That could be.  
Raiskin: It’d be great to have.  
Raiskin:  What was the typical weekend in Eugene at this time for the lesbian 
community? What would you do on a typical the weekend?  
Drescher:  Like a lot of women— I mean, at that time, there weren't a lot of 
lesbian social things going on, so many of us did go to the  bar, 
which was called the  Riv Room. And it was sort of a dive, but 
you'd see your friends  there. It was sort of like the place I had gone 
to in Ann Arbor  which was called “The Flame” which is a great 
name for gay bar.  
Long: Do you remember where the Rivier Room was located? What  cross 
streets it would have been?  
Drescher:  I think it was on Broadway. It's where the Oregon, not Oregon 
Contemporary Theater, but the other theater is— 
Raiskin:  Actors Cabaret?  
Drescher:  Actors Cabaret, yeah. It was within the block. It didn't go as far as 
the corner.  
Long: So it was on Broadway? 
Drescher:  Yes. That, and there  were a lot of parties that people would have at 
their homes and a lot of Halloween parties, especially those were 
fun, and— 
Raiskin: Who would have them?  
Drescher:  Well, I had one of the Halloween parties. It was great. I turned my 
whole basement into like a creepy corner, and blindfolded people 
and took them around and had them feel the brains and then there 
was this treasure chest they could open and as soon as they did I 
press this balloon that would puff air into their faces like— it was 
totally dark. I don't know. Closet door, I would secretly open which 
showed a glowing skeleton. Of course, no one was really scared but 
I think they appreciate the effort. And everyone came totally 
dressed up. But you know— 
Long:  Where were you living?  
Drescher:  I initially lived on Fourth  and Adams, and that was a lesbian 
household. And then later I bought a house at Twelfth  and Monroe 
not far away. And then years later, as I grew up, I bought my place 
out on the Ridgeline Trail, which is where I still live.  
Raiskin:  What were the attitudes about sexuality in the community at that 
time?   
Drescher:  Pretty free and open. I remember some women talking openly 
about the S&M parties or the— I don't even know what that stands 
for, the  BDSM parties they would go to and the poly-stuff, poly— 
whatever many sexual partners stuff. And it was— a lot of it was 
fueled, of course by marijuana or other drugs.  I remember— what 
was that called? It started with an E. It was a drug that made you 
feel like everything was right in the world— 
Raiskin:  Ecstasy? 
Drescher:  Ecstasy,  it was Ecstasy. Yeah, that was a big thing. And in fact, one 
of my friends had a chemist  make it for her and all of her friends.  
I'll tell you in another few years, whether long term brain effects.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about the lesbian land at the time?  
Drescher:  Well, I knew it existed, and I visited it and then later I was asked to 
represent them. The women at Golden when there was— they  had 
been growing marijuana, and there was a bust. And we went to 
court and I filed an unlawful search and seizure motion to suppress 
and I actually got the evidence suppressed, which made the local 
newspaper. So, they were scot free  because there was no evidence, 
because the cop had unlawfully trespassed on their land. And that's 
how he found out that they were growing marijuana.  
Raiskin:  Were they growing it just for their own use or for sale?  
Drescher:  Yes.  
Long:  Now Golden was the lesbian and gay male land. So there were men 
on Golden?  
Drescher:  Actually adjacent, at that time anyway, Cabbage Lane was adjacent 
to Golden and Cabbage Lane was for gay men and Golden was for 
women.  
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Raiskin:  What year was that?  
Drescher: That must have been probably early ‘80s, maybe ’82-ish. 
Raiskin: So was this— were you enjoying yourself at this time of your life? 
Or were there— 
Drescher:  Yeah, I was. There were stressful parts, too. I mean, I didn't want 
anyone to go to jail. So, I took this stuff seriously. But it was really 
fun to win. It was really fun when Starflower  was going well 
enough that they could buy another building and I was involved 
with that. And it was almost always fun. Some of it was stressful 
too. I didn't like people being sexually harassed. I didn't like to see 
people discriminated against. I felt like I was doing the right thing 
and representing people and even people who didn't have lawsuits, 
I could listen to them and I could talk with them and sort of at least  
have someone feel like they were being heard.  
Raiskin: What kind of discrimination harassment did you see?   
Drescher:  Well, one of my discrimination cases— a very attractive straight 
woman worked at one of the lumber companies. She did this thing 
where she  would go out and assess the value of timber, and they 
really harassed her. First of all, of course, they all wanted to date 
her and she didn't want to date any of them. And they would leave  
pornographic things on her desk and make comments and she was 
very upset. So, we sued them and it was a big timber company. 
They should have known better. She had gone to HR and gotten no 
relief. And she later told me that it was the time of her life that she 
had felt most empowered after she came to me and worked with 
me.  
 And then one of my other cases involved a black woman who— it 
was a police misconduct case and they had basically beaten her up 
in front of her children after they came to serve a court order on her 
for failure to appear on traffic violation. And they chased her 
through the house and knocked her down and hit her in front of 
her two young kids. So that was another lawsuit that—a it was 
important to help her feel vindicated, and she did. She got some 
money in the end. I mean, it didn't make the situation go away, but 
she got some money.  
 I mean, I didn't always represent lesbians. Another  straight woman 
I represented was in Coquille,  and she had been beaten up by her 
husband or boyfriend I can't remember and called the police and 
the police took him away  and she said, "Is he going to be in jail 
overnight?" "Yes." "Are you sure he's going to be in jail overnight?  
Otherwise, he's going to come back here and really beat  me up.” 
"He's going to be in jail overnight." They told her repeatedly.  Well, 
of course, in the middle of the night he was let go and came back 
and beat the shit out of her. We sued the local police and the 
sheriff's department. And you know, it was that kind of thing. A 
guy with epilepsy, the police thought he was drunk, so they beat 
him up and threw him in jail and wouldn't listen to him. So, I 
mean, I did represent a lot of lesbians, but a lot of other people, too. 
Long:  You have a number of different organizations listed down here. 
One is Mother Kali’s, Garbagio’s, Surata [Soyfoods], Zoo Zoo’s. 
Can you talk about those?  
Drescher:  Yeah, sure. Mother Kali’s  was always in some kind of drama.  
Raiskin: The feminist bookstore.  
Drescher:  The women's—. Yeah, the women's feminist bookstore and it was 
run by two really nice women, smart women, well intentioned 
women. But somehow, the community felt they owned it. It got 
caught up in a lot of drama. And one of the things I was asked to 
do was to help them separate the drama from the bookstore. I had 
to talk with some of the women who were creating the drama and 
later—I didn't even remember this—someone who has since 
become a friend said, "Well, should we talk about the letter?" I said, 
"What do you mean?" "The letter you wrote?" I said, "What do you 
mean?" "The letter you wrote for Mother Kali's to me telling me 
never to come into that bookstore again." “Oh, no, I don't  
remember that, I'm sorry. It sounds horrible for you.” But she's 
very nice. We have a nice friendship today, that sort of thing. Some 
of it was bigger, like Garbagio’s  actually. We had to  file 
bankruptcy.  
Raiskin: What was Garbagio’s?  
Drescher:  Garbagio’s  was an alternative garbage service where they tried to 
do recycling and I think composting and they would pick up the 
garbage by hand and no trucks  going “Ynih, ynih”  [open trucks 
without lifts]. And they had a lot of women. And I also represented 
Surata back when they were a co op.  
Long:  What was Surata? 
Drescher:  Surata is a tofu-making business. And I think I represented Genesis 
Juice back when they were co-op. But eventually these co ops, the 
way they were being run, which was not purely like businesses. It 
was a wonderful sort of adventure and attempt to run a business 
the way you'd like to see businesses run. But the competition just 
wiped them out. Like Starflower  folded when Safeway started 
selling organic food, they could undersell them. And when some 
bigger distributor stepped in, where you didn't have collective 
meetings that went on for hours and hours, and the collective was 
buying food for everybody, and everyone was getting paid to be 
there  and make a decision. It was really interesting, actually.  
 Let's see, who else did I say I represented. I represented a lot of 
women from the various co ops that I represented when they  
wanted to buy a house or were involved in a personal injury 
accident or if they had a criminal case. Sometimes there were 
divorces, sometimes other kinds of lawsuits, but sort of more run of 
the mill stuff. The big stuff that I did was representing the co ops 
and then police misconduct, sexual harassment and  sex 
discrimination cases.  
 In fact, one of my sexual discrimination case was someone who 
later worked at Starflower  and with her— with the outcome of the 
sex discrimination case, she went off to Japan for a year and she 
came back with these really nice pictures of women in the baths. I 
mean paintings, women in the baths in Japan and I still have them 
in my bathroom.  
Long:  Where was your law office?  
Drescher:  We were in the Lane building. 
Raiskin:  Which is?  
Drescher:  Which is down  by the train station. And it was right above Monster 
Cookie at the time. I don't know if Monster Cookies still  exists— so 
we would smell the cookies every afternoon and you wouldn't gain 
a whole lot of weight if that's what you ate for lunch and dinner. I 
mean, one Monster Cookie.  
Raiskin:  And how long was your— did you practice last? 
Drescher:  Well, I was in private practice probably for about eight years and 
then I took a job at UO as Director of Student Advocacy, also for  
probably about eight years, I think maybe longer. And there again, 
sexual harassment of students became my issue, along with gay 
rights stuff. I was on the President's Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Rights. I think something like that. Myles— 
Raiskin:  The Task Force?   
Drescher:  Pardon?  
Raiskin:  Task Force.  
Drescher: Yeah, the Task Force, the Task Force.  
Long: As a staff member? 
Drescher:  Well, I was actually employed by ASUO, as student advocate. But I 
was probably considered a staff member. I ran into Garrett Epps  
who used to work at the Law School because I had another job at 
the Law School later. And he introduced me to his wife, is someone 
he had worked with at the Law School and I was like, "Garrett, 
you're so generous, because he's like this nationally known 
constitutional scholar.  
Raiskin:  So were you involved on campus with— you were in the Task 
Force and were you involved in gay politics on campus or 
relationships with people around campus?  
Drescher:  Very much  so, and I took— we had a few cases which changed 
things like I represented two gay men who wanted to have a place 
in what was called family housing at the time. And they couldn't  
because they weren't married. And— No, it wasn't called family 
housing, it was called married student housing at the time. And 
eventually, we went through the channels here and to get to 
affirmative action, which basically always wanted to rubber stamp 
what was in the best interests of the university. And then taking it 
outside of the university, I did get the guy— what was his  name? 
He later became president of the Oregon bar, but he was a very out 
gay man. And he took it to court and to the court of appeals and 
before the court of appeals got to decide it, U of O  decided to 
change it. So that was good.  
Long: What year was that?  
Drescher:  Well, these guys  probably initially came to me, I'm guessing, I don't 
know, around ‘88 maybe.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever see police harassment at the Riviera  Room?  
Drescher:  I did not, no. 
Raiskin:  That would have been an interesting case.  
Drescher: I wasn't a real frequent person at the Riv Room.  
Long:  What were some of the other social activities you took part in 
within the lesbian community?  
Drescher:  At that time— 
Long:  At that time.   
Drescher:  In those early days?  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Drescher:  There were a lot of parties and I guess the house that I was living in 
initially with a bunch of other lesbians, there was camping and 
there was I guess just trips to the coast and Ecstasy and marijuana 
and a lot of checking people out.  
Long:  How  about softball games? Did you go to any softball games?  
Drescher:  I went to a few. One of my lovers at the time played on a softball 
team. I went to some of them, but it really wasn't my thing.  
Long:  What can you tell us about when the anti-gay initiatives came 
through different times in Eugene?  
Drescher:  Well, I remember we all took it really seriously and worked on it. I 
did not have a leadership role. Probably the thing that I remember 
most is one of the later OCA measures we had Passover seder at 
the Hilton to raise money against the OCA and Sally Sheklow  was 
the main organizer of that. And I know she asked me in some other 
context, I had talked about my family and what it was like to be 
Jewish, and how our rabbi who was a Holocaust survivor had this 
beautiful voice to sing in Hebrew. And little Frankie Levy had a 
high little voice and he would sing along with Rabbi. And then my 
father who is tone-deaf would also try to sing. And the three of 
them sounded actually really exquisite  together. So  I told that story 
to this huge crowd. And it was like how we're all different, but we  
all contribute in this way that is beautiful. And I think people— I 
think it was mostly very straight people who attended that event.  
Raiskin:  Were they Jewish people, or?  
Drescher:  I think there were a few Jews but not mostly Jews. I think it was 
mostly reaching out to the community. I remember Alan Siporin, 
he had a show on KLCC, the local radio station at the time and he 
wanted to— he interviewed me. And he said something like, 
"Marlene, you've always got something to say." And my lover at 
the time said, “Yes, she does.” Anyway, Sally really should talk 
about that, that was her thing.  
 One thing I do remember is that they forgot— she had given 
recipes to the kitchen on how to prepare the Passover meal. And I 
believe that they had made the Matzah balls correctly, but didn't 
understand that you were supposed to put them in the soup and 
cook  them, so then we had these raw Matzah balls. That's my 
vague recollection.  
Raiskin: What were the different expressions of spirituality you saw in the 
community?  
Drescher:  Well, among the Jews, we had a Baleboosteh group. And that was 
sort of spiritual. I mean, we would talk about our lives and talk 
about how to make things better in the world and in our lives, and 
also celebrate the different phases of the moon. It was sort of part 
woo, woo astrology and little bits of what we knew from our 
Jewish background. But we would meet I think, once a month, and  
that was— I remember once we had  a Passover Seder at my 
apartment on Fourth Street, and there was a woman named Blue 
who had a child and she accidentally stepped into the chicken soup  
pot. I mean, we're all sitting on the floor. There's this big pot 
chicken soup. The child stepped in it.  I don't know, it was all fun.  
Long: Could you explain what Baleboostehs  is? 
Drescher:  Baleboosteh  is a Yiddish word and a Baleboosteh  is a woman who 
knows how to clean up the kitchen or put dinner on the table 
without going shopping, you just pull things off the shelf and you 
make something or you really know how to pack a suitcase. That's 
a Baleboosteh. So that's why we called that group the Baleboostehs. 
Raiskin:  And what other  spiritual groups did you see or interests  that the  
people in community were following?  
Drescher:  Well, I know that people followed a lot of woo woo stuff as some of 
the gatherings I would go to. What I remember is Tarot readings 
because once I was talked  into having my cards read, and it was 
sort of like shocking, because she could really read the cards and 
maybe she knew that about my life, but maybe she didn't. Maybe 
Tarot really was something that worked. I mean to me it was sort of 
like a Ouija board. But a lot of people were into a lot of women's 
spirituality and that was something else that I didn't really follow 
closely. I know that the women's land for some legal work I did for 
them promised to give me a calendar and I don't know what some  
kind of book on spirituality. Maybe you know these people, they 
make calendars.  
Long: We’Moon.  
Drescher:  Yeah, We’Moon, but they never sent it to me. And it was like, okay. 
Not that I missed it terribly. But it could have been— 
Long:  You actually—did you ever live on lesbian land then? 
Drescher:  No. I lived in lesbian households earlier and early  in Eugene. But 
never on the lesbian land.  
Long:  Okay.  
Raiskin: Have you been involved in parenting in Eugene?  
Drescher:  I have been involved in parenting. I took in my daughter as a foster 
child back  in— let's see, I guess  2002, and she was like a feral child. 
She did not know what a book was for, she was totally out of 
control. Both of her parents were meth addicts. She had been 
exposed to meth in utero and also dad had cooked meth in their 
small trailer when she was little. Every tooth in her mouth was 
rotten. Her first temper tantrum was when we passed a Pepsi 
machine. And at age three, I wouldn't buy her a Pepsi. She came to 
me at about three and a half. And I just wanted— at that time, I was 
the director of the Domestic Violence Clinic, which was a joint 
project of Legal Aid and the Law School where I would teach third 
year law students to represent domestic abuse survivors and 
stalking victims in contested hearings in court.   
 So I saw a lot of kids come through the system. And I just wanted 
—it was also after 9/11 and I just wanted to— I had done all this 
stuff that sort of was on the periphery of people's lives. They would 
come to me with huge stories and terrible stories about their lives 
and I could fix maybe that much of a whole big thing. But I wanted 
to affect  the most vulnerable, a child, and I wanted to affect in a big 
way. And I took Bri in. She was my second foster child.  
 I took her in committing that I would never let her be shuffled in 
foster care. And I didn't know details about the parents but 
Services for Children and Families told me that she would probably 
be reunited with her families —with  her parents in three months. 
And then it was another three months and then it was another 
three months and then dad did fail. He hadn't done this and that 
and mom was in prison for some stupid, she was trying to pass 
hundred dollar bills that had been Xeroxed  off in a hotel room. I 
mean, they were meth addicts. They did crazy things and they got 
in trouble. And Bri was not going to go back to them.  
 I was pretty old at the time. I mean, she's nineteen, I'm sixty-seven. 
So you figure it out. I got her at age three. I was already well into 
my fifties when they asked me to adopt her a couple of years later. 
And she'd been calling me mom for years, and I  loved her. Of 
course, I wanted to adopt her. Has that answered your question? 
Yes I — And then of course, what was very helpful to me, even 
from the beginning when she was just my foster child was when I  
joined a lesbian mom's group, which was called Rainbow Rascals 
which I think many people are familiar with.  
 And Bri came to feel that probably most people had  two moms and 
why didn't she? Then once in school she— during sharing time she 
said, "I have two moms and one is in jail." And one of the— the 
children were all like— Apparently, the teacher told me they were 
all jaws dropping, eyes wide. And at least one of them went home 
and told her mother, what Bri had said during  sharing and that 
mother had the courage to say to me, "Marlene, I understand your 
partner is in jail." So, I did get to set the record straight, at least it 
was one person.  
Raiskin:  Did you have any issues with Department of — what was is  it 
called?  
Drescher:  It was called the Service for Children and Families at the time, and I 
don't know what it is. I think it's called something else now. Well, 
the first foster child I had who was a cute little girl, probably also 
about three. She actually had this case of resistant lice. I was 
working full time and washing out her hair probably three times a 
week and washing everything that she had touched in the house.  
My washer broke down; I had to get a new washer. And finally, I 
had heard not from them but from someone else that they had a 
lice control program.  
 So I brought this little girl whose name was Destiny in. She needs 
you to take care of her lice. And told them what I had I tried and  
Destiny on the way there said, "No, no, please don't take me there. 
Don't take me there." And she knew something I didn't, which was 
that that was going to be the last time I saw her because when they 
took her away, they took me to a separate room. And they said, 
"We think that it's in Destiny's best interest to be with a more 
experienced foster family." And that was it. I never saw that child 
again.  I think that she really did know that, you just stay away from 
SCF.  
Raiskin: Why did they take her from you?  
Drescher:  They didn't— what I learned was that you don't ask them for 
anything. That if you ask them for something at that  time anyway, 
you're going to pay for it one way or another. And I paid for it by 
losing access to this little girl who I had, I had only briefly. I don't 
know, maybe a month or so, maybe six weeks, I don't remember. 
But yeah, it was not a pleasant experience. But I still did want a kid.  
They offered me several others.  They  offered me babies. They 
offered me ten-year-old boys. They offered me a lot of kids who 
were not what I had said I was willing to take. So I waited, and I 
got Bri. And Bri was a very wild child and needed a lot, but she's 
been a great kid. And Rainbow Rascals, the lesbian moms group 
was very helpful to both of us, helped her socialize, help me just 
have a support group.  
Raiskin:  There was no issue in the State of Oregon for  a lesbian to adopt? 
Drescher:  Not at that time.   
Raiskin:  And your relationship with the organizations was smooth in the 
adoption? 
Drescher:  It was, it was. I had Bri for probably three years before we got to 
adoption, which was much longer than was mandated under 
federal law.  It was  supposed to be fourteen  months before they 
did— during which they would determine whether to terminate 
parental rights and move to adoption or not. They waited a long 
time. But I did feel, because I did learn some workers who I became 
sort of friendly with, were sort of on my side and by then knew 
who I was and what I was offering Bri. And by that time, I 
remember they had to  search out family members. There was one 
aunt, Bri's father's sister, who had three other kids from three 
different fathers. And we had this big discussion over— with a 
number of workers, and me. And we had her on speakerphone and 
one of her first questions was, "Well, how much would she get a 
month if she did take Bri?" And that was sort of like “Hmmm.”  
Neon lights went on over the table.  After that, I felt I was going to 
get Bri and I did.  
Long: Back to some of the other organizations you worked for. Can you 
talk to us about the Rape Crisis Network board? And the SASS?  
Drescher:  I was on the board of directors of Rape Crisis Network. And I 
believe Nadia Telsey was director at that time. And we did a lot of 
good work. And I think Nadia eventually did— I mean, she did 
great work. She eventually did burn out and moved on. There was 
a fair amount of drama. It was mostly lesbians who ran the Rape  
Crisis Network. And then after Nadia, it transitioned to actually 
closer relationship with the university and women who didn't 
come from the lesbian-feminist women's community.  
 And I was off the board by then. But I was Director of Student 
Advocacy also by then. And because ASUO was also contributing 
to Rape Crisis Network, and they were getting these reports that 
the place was unfriendly. The doors were closed most of the time. It 
was hard to reach people when you did reach people. The women 
who were running it were paranoid. They asked me to investigate 
it. So, I did investigate it. And all of these things were true about it 
was not providing the service that ASUO was contributing  for. 
Students weren't receiving it, people in the community weren't 
receiving it. The feminists who had established it had serious 
concerns about it.  
 I had to take this information to ASUO and the university. U of O  
was also contributing some to it. And we had  a big meeting and I 
said, "Well, if we can't [need to] close it down, let's start something 
new." And everyone was like "Okay, well we could withdraw our 
money from there, and give you this and blah blah, blah." And I 
actually came up with the acronym SASS. I thought it was cool.  
Raiskin: Sexual Assault Support Services.  
Drescher:  Yes. Although people wondered if it was Support Services for 
Sexual Assault. Like if it was, it would somehow aid sex—. I mean 
anyway— I mean, I think people were just, I don't know. One  
interesting thing that happened with SASS. We had a new director 
and we weren't sure about, we couldn't work the situation well 
enough to pay someone and to seek out the kind of feminist 
director we needed. We got someone else whose name I'm not 
going to say.  
 But I also got a police officer on the board because I thought we 
needed a woman police officer, a feminist, and I thought we 
needed that kind of relationship with the police to really have these 
cases taken seriously and investigated and victim services for the 
women and stuff like that. I remember we were having a meeting, 
we were still kind of not exactly mainstreaming. We were having a 
meeting in my hot tub, a board meeting, and the police officer 
called and said she couldn't attend. I said, "Oh, well, we'll see you 
next month." "No, no, I am actually falling off the board." "Well, 
why? why are you leaving?" "Well, you know why." "No, no. Why? 
Why?" "Well, it's because of your  director." "Well, what about our 
director?"  
 Well, apparently,  some people on the board who I also won't name 
but who you both know, didn't know this  [knew this], but I didn't 
know this that the director we had hired, had previously been 
arrested for growing marijuana in Deadwood being a big grower 
and spent some time in jail. And it was like the police were willing 
to take some steps forward, but not that far. So she had to step off. 
And we then— when I found out that other people knew this, and 
no one  had told me I was like, "When does the drama end?" We  
had to fire  her which was controversial and hire someone new. 
And that's when we found  Phyllis. And you probably know— I'm 
not going to use her last name, either. But she was great. And SASS 
then became well established. And Phyllis has gone on to do many 
wonderful things in the area. But anyway— 
Long:  Could you describe, I mean, it seems obvious but describe the 
services that the Rape Crisis Network provided, and SASS? 
Drescher:  Well, let me sort of lump them together. And I mean, basically, a 
survivor could call. There was a twenty-four  hour hotline, where 
you could talk with a counselor or an advocate at anytime, whether 
you were having a difficult time with something that had 
happened to you twenty  years before, or whether you had just been 
raped and you didn't know what to do, whether you were in agony 
or whether you were in physical— that you were physically 
harmed and suffering, and the counselor could get you in touch 
with an advocate to take you to the hospital where they could— the 
advocate would be with you during a rape kit was performed by an 
ER doctor, or the advocate could explain to you what it would 
mean about filing a criminal complaint. Or whether, whatever the 
victim wanted to do fully informed, it was her decision whether to 
go forward, whether to seek counseling, whether to file a criminal 
complaint, whether to go to victim services, which was through the 
D.A.’s office. 
 Sexual Assault Support Services also had an educational arm where 
they would go out and talk about sexual assault. What was sexual  
assault? What does it mean to get consent? What happens when 
you don't have consent? What it means to be drunk, that you can't 
give consent unless you actually have your normal consciousness. 
And the Rape Crisis Network was early on and it was sort of 
leading up to that and I think— I don't remember if RCN  really 
could provide, I think probably we did have or attempted to have 
twenty-four  hour hotline services. Certainly, the issue wasn't as 
developed in the public eye or within the police in D.A.’s office as it 
later became.  
Raiskin:  It's my impression that a lot of the social service agencies were run 
by lesbians in Eugene. Is that your impression? And if so, why do 
you think that might have been?  
Drescher:  Well, I think that lesbians understood what it meant to be hurt and 
needing someone. I think lesbians valued helping others because at 
times, maybe they needed help. And I think that it was the politics 
of the time to reach out and really help somebody. And I think that 
was a shared community value. Not by everyone, but by enough 
people that some lesbians went to college and finished degrees in 
order to be in a position to help others.  
Raiskin:  Would you remember some of those agencies  were? I remember 
the All Women’s Health  Collective? And, can't remember other 
ones. 
Drescher:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Womenspace.   
Drescher:  Of course Womenspace, for survivors of domestic violence. And 
there was a national organization I think, probably the Our Bodies, 
Ourselves collective from Boston from the late ‘60s really started 
organizing around women's health issues. And of course, it's still a 
huge national issue. I mean, should women control their own 
bodies? Or should those old white guys make all the rules? And 
there used to be, I'm trying to remember it was like, was it federal 
women's health? There used to be a series of women's health 
organizations. And there's one in Tallahassee, one in Chicago, one 
in Southern California.  
 And I think the All Women one  here maybe was loosely identified 
with those, but I think that abortion was so controversial and had 
so many people willing to be outrageously trying to eliminate 
abortion and the people who practiced it that the women's health 
centers, most of them slowly closed including the one here. 
Although I'm glad Planned Parentho od, which is— became much 
more mainstream, was able to take the mantle there.  
Raiskin: Do you feel like you ever experienced health services that were 
negatively impacted by your being lesbian?  
Drescher:  Well, early on yeah. But I think since I've been in Eugene, people 
have been— the health providers that I selected for myself— I 
mean, part of it was to ask my friends well, “Who's good? Who's 
good for lesbians? Who's going to treat me with respect?” I 
remember going with my radical lesbian collective in Ann Arbor  to 
a rural bar, where we saw a black lesbian who was briefly famous,  
perform, and she wasn't out but we were and it erupted into a big 
bar fight and I was beaten up. Most of us were, despite our karate, 
and going to a health provider who asked too many questions, but 
“How did this happen?” and just shutting down after I told him, 
"Well I was attacked at a bar because I was dancing with my 
girlfriend." So, Angie and I both had shiners.  I had one shiner on 
one side and she had one shiner on the other. We went to auto 
mechanics class the next day and the boys were really interested 
that they thought we had maybe hit each other somehow  like that.  
Raiskin:  What haven't you asked you that you think we should know 
about? You, about Eugene, and it's time, about the time of your life 
that you've been living?  
Drescher:  Well, I think you've hit the high points.  
Raiskin: We haven't talked about your relationships much or what you 
think about marriage equality.  
Drescher:  I think equality generally is a good thing. Marriage equality and 
allowing gays, lesbians, trans people to serve the country, all of 
that's a good thing. Basically, I think equality is a good thing. I'm 
not sure that marriage as an  institution is enough in the social 
interest to make it something that I personally would fight for. I 
mean, I think it's a nice thing. People get stuff out of it. There are 
tax advantages or social security advantages. But I'm not sure that 
it's the top of the top. I mean, I wouldn't like to see it go away. I 
want it to stay. But—  
Raiskin: What do you think should be the top of the top?  
Drescher:  Well, I think equality. First of all, income inequality. I think poverty 
is so destructive for people. There should be some kind of floor  that 
people don't fall under. There should be something that supports 
people with children, there should be some— not a minimum 
wage, but a minimum and a level of access to services. And usually 
that means enough money to support that. I think healthcare is 
more important than marriage, health care equality so that people 
aren't in fear of literally dying because they don't have health care. 
And these issues definitely affect gays and lesbians, along with 
everyone else of a certain income bracket. I don't know if that 
answered your question or not. Were you asking me what's the top 
priority for gays and lesbians?  
Raiskin: Yes. 
Drescher:  Probably I'd have the same answer: equality. Equal access to health 
care, some kind of income floor for people, whether they are 
working, can work, can't work, need housing.  
Raiskin: Your life has certainly been focused on social justice work.  
Drescher:  Mm-hmm (affirmative).  
Long:  I'm wondering if you have something you would say particularly 
to younger people who might watch this video at some point.  
Drescher:  The other— the thing that is most in my mind that never was in my 
mind or in my— on my social justice calendar before, was climate  
change. And I do think that we're so close to an irrevocable path of 
destroying the earth, that we may be able to reverse that if we take 
the actions that we can now and I hope that if young people are 
hearing this, they know that there's an old lesbian who used to do 
other  social issues that affected people in other ways and who is 
now doing climate change work trying to save the planet for them.  
Long: When you think about your life in Eugene among the lesbian 
community, what is something that you feel brought you the 
greatest joy?  
Drescher:  I think having circle of friends who share values and ideals and 
outlook. Same outlook on the world. And being able to feel at ease 
in that social circle and to feel part of that family and yeah, feel 
supported by it and wanting to support it. 
Long: And what about your faith? Has that been a part of that 
experience?  
Drescher:  Well, my Judaism has been. I don't know that I call it faith since I'm 
at best an agnostic and probably atheist. But I do relate to Jews in a 
way that is special because we share a background and share 
experiences and I think, especially people whose parents or maybe 
first or second generation are closer in  experience  to me, there's a 
certain ethic growing up  in that kind of household that’s  somewhat 
unique or at least similar among Jewish lesbians, especially how we 
came  out, how our parents reacted, what the rest of the family 
thinks about it, what it is to bring a lover home to a Jewish family  
where there  hasn't necessarily been another out, gay person. Kind 
of interesting. Not that other things aren't also interesting, but it's 
nice to feel at home with someone.  
Raiskin:  I think that wraps it up  for our questions.  
Long: Thank you very much.  
Drescher: You're welcome.  
Raiskin: Thank you so much, Marlene.  
Drescher: Good.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  