 
Van Brunt:  Okay.  
Long:  We're rolling.  
Van Brunt:  Oh, we are?  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. This interview is part of the Eugene 
Lesbian Oral History Project. The recordings will be made available 
through the University of Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives. This is an oral history interview with Lina 
Van Brunt on August 24, 2018 taking place in the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  recording studio, in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.   
 Lina, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project, 
and that you give your permission for the university to preserve 
and make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Van Brunt:  Yes.  
Long:  Okay, thank you. So let's just start with a basic question. Can you 
please tell us when and where you were born, and something about 
your early years?  
Van Brunt:  I was born in St. Louis, Missouri in 1943, June 21, 1943, because my 
father was in the Navy and there was a base there. But mostly I 
grew up in Florida, and most of that was in Tallahassee, which is 
where my father was born and my sister was born, and almost all 
of my relatives are. And let's see— 
Long:  You went to school in Tallahassee?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah. I did, from fourth grade on through high school. And then 
after high school, I went to college at William &  Mary in 
Williamsburg, Virginia. And from there I went to New York City 
and worked for five years. Decided to become a hippy, full time, 
and moved to San Francisco where that's easy to do.  
Raiskin:  And what year was that?  
Van Brunt:  Seventy. 
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Back up a little bit to your high school 
years, did you know you were a lesbian as a young person?   
Van Brunt:  No.  
Raiskin:  No. And were your high school years pleasant, or difficult? What 
was the town like for you where you grew up?  
Van Brunt:  I'd say my high school years were mostly pleasant. I was kind of 
shy. I had two really good friends and that was about it. I didn't 
have like a big circle of friends the way some people do in high 
school. And I lived in a very, very conservative place, but I didn't 
know that. I mean, it's where I always had been. A lot of overt 
racism. I grew up in segregated schools. I went only to segregated 
schools in a segregated town.  
Long:  What years were those?  
Van Brunt:  That I was in Tallahassee?  
Long:  In school. Yeah.  
Van Brunt:  Let me have that sheet again. I got out of high school in '61. So, '57 
to '61 was when I was in high school. And before that— I don't 
know, '55 maybe, '54— '54 to '61 I was in Tallahassee.  
Long:  Do you recall when you were in high  school, then that was after 
Brown v. Board of Education, wasn't it?  
Van Brunt:  I think so.  
Long:  Do you recall those racial tensions at the time?   
Van Brunt:  Only in that— I mean, my parents didn't talk about it. I didn't 
know people talking about it. Except my cousins who were pretty 
much the same age I was, they were being harassed and bullied 
because their father and mother were very much involved in the 
civil rights movement. They were in marches downtown. Had a lot 
of death threats and that kind of thing. I wasn't aware of a lot of 
that. I learned it much later, but I did know that things were 
happening to my cousin. And I kind of knew why, but not really. I 
was very ignorant.  
Raiskin:  What did you like to study and why did you choose the college you 
went to?  
Van Brunt:  Well— Oh, that's a good question. I started out as a math major, 
because that was kind of where my SAT said I should go. But then, 
oh dear, I fell in love with this woman who was an English major. 
So, I switched my major.  
Raiskin:  This is  college?  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  And so you were an English major through college?  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  Okay. And so what did you do after college?  
Van Brunt:  Well, at graduation I turned to the woman behind me and said, 
"What are you going to do?" She said, "I don't know. What are you  
going to do?" I said, "Well, I know there've got to be jobs in New 
York City. Let's go to New York City," and she said, "Okay." So we 
did. And lived there for five years trying to be a business woman.  
Long:  What kind of business did you do?  
Van Brunt:  Well, I worked for Time  magazine for two or three years, I don't 
remember how long, as a copy girl. And I would transfer an 
editor's edits to the writer's copy, or vise versa, and the researcher's 
edits to the writer to the— you know. Mostly I sat there and tried to 
look alert until somebody called me to do something.  
Long:  Do you recall how much money you made for that work?  
Van Brunt:  I made $75 a week. I started work at 6:00 on Wednesday night and 
ended whenever the magazine went to bed on Saturday night. It 
was a very short work week, but all— a lot of hours. But it gave me 
a lot of weekend time, big long weekend. And I got used to it.  
Raiskin:  What'd you do on your weekend time in New York?  
Van Brunt:  Oh man, there were so many things to do there. And at that time, 
even on $75 a week, you could do a lot— go to concerts. I went to a 
lot of concerts. And I went out to Fire Island a few times, and over 
to Brooklyn, and—  
Raiskin: Were you identifying as gay yet? Not yet.  
Van Brunt:  No. No. And I was going to the Fillmore East, a lot, for concerts.  
Long:  Where did you live?   
Van Brunt:  All over Manhattan and a little bit in Brooklyn Heights. I lived in 
some real dives, in some really bad places.  
Raiskin:  Are you attracted to the— 
Van Brunt:  But I love New York. I loved it. I loved being able to go to Museum 
of Modern Art on my lunch break, and you know— it was just 
fabulous.  
Raiskin:  How did you become attracted to the hippy world?  
Van Brunt:  Well, I had a boyfriend at Time, and he was kind of a hippy and he 
introduced me to other hippies. I just thought it seemed pretty cool.  
Raiskin:  So, you gave everything up in New York.  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  And how'd you decide where to go? You went to San Francisco.  
Van Brunt:  Because that's where the hippies were. New York was where the 
jobs were, San Francisco was the hippies were. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  How'd you get there?  
Van Brunt:  Drove across country.  
Raiskin:  With your boyfriend?  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  And what did you think about San Francisco when you got there?   
Van Brunt:  I loved San Francisco. I loved it.  
Long:  What did you like about it?  
Van Brunt:  Oh, I just liked the energy there from all the hippies, from all the 
people there, and the access to Golden Gate Park, and the beach. I 
lived on Judah Street, real close to the ocean. And streetcars. I just 
liked it.  
Raiskin:  What attracted you to the counter-culture movement at the time?  
Van Brunt:  The freedom, the allure of being free of a lot of things that I had 
been taught that I would never be free of. That was most of it, I 
think.  
Raiskin:  So what got you to Eugene?  
Van Brunt:  Well, from San Francisco I moved up to Bolinas, where there was a 
women's group. And at the women's group, one day this woman in 
the group said, "We're going to have two special guests next week, 
and they're both lesbians. And they're going to talk to us about 
being lesbians." I went to the group and I thought being a lesbian 
sounded really nice. And I had already been in love with a woman 
in college. I thought, "Well, I'm going to check this out." And 
Bolinas was also where I learned carpentry, and I really enjoyed 
that a lot. There was a women's carpentry class that started up 
there that I was in. Then I worked with this old socialist, wonderful 
old guy, who was master  carpenter and built boats. That's what 
Bolinas was— Oh, and I fell in love with a woman there.   
Raiskin:  After, or before, the workshop?  
Van Brunt:  After. She was one of the women in the women in the workshop.  
Raiskin:  Oh.  
Van Brunt:  She didn't know what to make of me.  
Raiskin:  Why?  
Van Brunt:  Because I came on to her so strong. But, it worked out, briefly. And 
then I moved up to Caspar, and Albion, in northern California, 
where a lot, a lot, a lot of lesbians were. And got introduced to 
Country Women magazine and the whole Country Women 
community, a lot of whom were living in Albion. And I lived with 
a collective of women in Caspar. And then one day, one of those 
women said, "You know, there's this place up in southern Oregon 
that I'd like to go to. Would you want to go with me?" And she said 
it was named WomanShare, and it just started. I don't remember 
what year that was, but it was whatever the year the three of them 
came to WomanShare and established it. We put out our thumbs 
and hitchhiked up to WomanShare. And I thought it seemed really,  
really nice, what these women were wanting to do there.  
Raiskin:  Can we just back up for a minute. When you got involved with this 
woman and began to identify as a lesbian, you said that seemed 
really nice. What seemed nice about it? And did you have any 
misgivings from your conservative childhood? Did you have any 
fears about that, or not?   
Van Brunt:  Yes. I did. I mean, I think one of the most painful things for me 
looking back, not then, but looking back, was how much I shut off 
the part of my life— my parents, my relatives, I went into the closet 
with them to some extent. I just really, really wanted to— I had 
always identified with women in different ways, and I just really 
wanted to explore what being a lesbian meant, what it would mean 
to me. And I knew it would be good. I knew it would be a good 
thing.  
Raiskin:  When you knew it would be a good thing— what  was attractive 
about it to you?  
Van Brunt:  I just found women so much easier to be with than men. And I 
found them very beautiful, and I loved the idea of just being with 
women. There was a Country Women's festival in the Redwood s, 
up in Mendocino, that I went to a couple of times. I remember 
walking through the woods and sort of— I was by myself and there 
was nobody around, and  I thought, "Oh, I better be more aware 
here." I started feeling this fear, and then I realized I didn't need to 
feel that because I was with all these women. That was really nice 
to realize that.  
Raiskin:  What was WomanShare like?  
Van Brunt:  Well, they  had just gotten there. I remember when we got there it 
was a blistering hot day and Billie, and Dian, and Carol were all 
sitting naked on a platform outside, trying to stay as cool as they 
could I guess. They were under a tree. And I just felt the potential  
there, you know? Nothing had happened. There were two 
buildings there that they were living in. But there weren't other 
women there. We got to know them and talked to them about what 
they wanted to do there. It was lovely. I really liked what they 
wanted to do. And I came eventually to live next door at a place 
called the Fish Pond. And I did some carpentry at WomanShare, I 
helped build this octagonal house. Eventually, from there, I went to 
Cabbage Lane in Wolf Creek, and lived with women.  
 And during this time I was becoming a separatist, feeling like I 
really, really didn't want to have men around in my life. Certainly 
not any— intimately  or anywhere near me. At that time separatism 
was pretty acceptable to most people, to most women I knew. And 
Cabbage Lane was really fun. It was hot, hot, hot in the summer, 
cold, cold, cold in the winter. And gray in the winter.  
Long:  How many years did you live— 
Van Brunt:  But it was beautiful.  
Long:  —at Cabbage Lane?  
Van Brunt:  Probably about two, not real long. And I would commute to 
Eugene to do work, to do carpentry during the time I lived at 
Cabbage Lane. And that would give me enough money to keep 
living there. But eventually, I felt like I wanted to live in Eugene 
and work in Eugene, and not have to play that back and forth 
game. And things were sort of falling apart, in a way, at Cabbage 
Lane. People were leaving and there were all kinds of internal  
political things that were happening there that made it hard for all 
of us.  
Raiskin:  What kind of things?  
Van Brunt:  Not just internal, actually. We were raided by the police because— 
oh man, this is a long crazy story but, we were taking care of two 
kids. Their mothers were not there, but they were there. Those kids 
went with one of us down to Grants Pass to grocery shop, and on 
the way back they picked up this woman who was standing by the 
road hitchhiking. And one of the kids was a little boy, and he had 
been going over to the gay men's land. And they had been painting 
his fingernails, and putting dresses on him  if he wanted that, and 
he did. This woman apparently, that we— we took her to Cabbage 
Lane, and we invited her to stay if she wanted to, overnight. But 
she didn't, she went on. But apparently, she called the cops on us 
and said, "There are two children being held by these lesbians and 
they're going to be sacrificing them."  
Raiskin:  Oh, wow.  
Long:  Oh, wow.  
Van Brunt:  It was just so bizarre, we could hardly believe it was happening. 
And we went into town to try to figure out what— they came— 
let’s see, how  did they get the children? They came and got the 
children, took them away, disappeared them. And we went to town 
to try to figure out how on earth to get them back and to make sure 
they were safe. And while we were gone to Grants Pass, the cops  
came and raided Cabbage Lane, and went through everything and 
took journals. It was really kind of awful, and that sort of put a pall 
on the whole place, and the feelings we had for it.  
Long:  Was that late '70s?  
Van Brunt:  No. 
Long:  Mid '70s?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], okay.  
Van Brunt:  I don't know what year, probably '74, something like that.  
Raiskin:  Do you know if the mothers got their children?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah, they did. It took a  while, and it was very scary because we 
didn't know where they were, or how they were being treated, or 
what. But, yeah, got them back. I mean the whole thing— I think 
the law finally realized that the whole story was just so bizarre. 
And we had friends in Wolf Creek who could testify for us that we 
wouldn't sacrifice  children, number one— harm them in any way. 
But that was one of the few things that made me want to move 
away from Cabbage Lane. And the heat in the summer, and the 
cold in the winter, and all the rain was getting old pretty quickly.  
Long:  Could you spend  some time talking about some of the women that 
you met there? For example, did you meet Jean and Ruth 
Mountaingrove when you lived down there?   
Van Brunt:  Yeah.  
Long:  Tell us something about them.  
Van Brunt:  Well, they were living on adjacent land to Cabbage Lane. And they 
were living in this very tiny little cabin. They were living on— 
Long:  Golden.  
Van Brunt:  —Golden land. Elizabeth— I can't remember her last name.  
Long:  Freeman?  
Van Brunt:  Freeman. Elizabeth Freeman and Alana— Michaels, I think, were 
living next door to Golden land. So, there was Cabbage Lane, 
Golden, Elizabeth and Alana. And Elizabeth had quit her job on the 
east coast and moved out to be near her nephew, who lived at 
Golden. And then she and Alana got together. Elizabeth was one of 
the big donors to making OWL Farm happen. And I was there 
when we— I went to look for land for OWL Farm with— different 
groups of us would do that.  
Long:  And that stands for Oregon Women's Land.  
Van Brunt:  Yes. That's right. That was very exciting, that part. Ruth and Jean, I 
didn't know very well. I visited them from time to time in their 
cabin. And they came up to Cabbage Lane occasionally, but I kind 
of knew what they were doing with WomanSpirit  magazine. Other 
women, well, La Rosa— I lived with La Rosa, Susanna Malool, 
Zarod— Clary Sage  for a while, Nelly for a while— Nelly Kauffer,  
and probably several others. We had a single summer, Cabbage 
Lane.  
Long:  What was that?  
Van Brunt:  There was this movement, I guess you'd call  it, singles movement 
going on partly because— it was interesting, the politics of all this 
because OWL Farm, I think, mostly came from a desire to make 
land available to all women. And that desire sort of came from the 
fact that WomanShare was owned by three women, and other 
pieces of women's land around there, too, were private. And so all 
of us down there wanted— I shouldn't say all of us, as far as I could 
tell, all of us wanted to find some land that would be available to 
everybody.  
 And then a single  summer also kind of originated from Nelly, who 
was living at WomanShare, and all the other women had partners 
there. And Nelly just didn't feel nearly as taken care of and as cared 
about— well, that's the same thing— as the other women. She felt 
like there might be a way to connect with women [other than 
coupling up] that would answer her needs more. And so that's 
what the single summer at Cabbage Lane was about, was women 
who identified as single but wanted to have more connection with 
other women.  
Raiskin:  So people came for that summer?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah.   
Raiskin:  From all over? Or, from other— 
Van Brunt:  Mostly Oregon. I don't think it was advertised very much, just 
probably in Eugene a little bit, and then word of mouth.  
Raiskin:  How many people came?  
Van Brunt:  I don't know. I'd say maybe twenty  or thirty, I don't know.  
Long:  Was Tee Corinne living down in southern Oregon when you were 
there?  
Van Brunt:  I don't think so. I think she came after— I don't remember— I knew 
who she was, but I don't remember hearing about her moving 
there. I knew Madrone and Bethroot, still do, they're good friends. 
And helped them find their land, too, which was really fun. And— 
I can't think of who else I knew down there that you might know or 
have heard about.  
Raiskin: You mentioned Billie Miracle.  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Billie, and Carol Newhouse, and Dian— 
can't remember— 
Long:  Nelly?  
Van Brunt:  And Nelly, yeah.  
Long:  So you're at southern Oregon lesbian land, and you know about 
Eugene. So you make a decision to come to Eugene?  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Long:  That was in the late '70s?  
Van Brunt:  No, it was probably— I think I guessed that it was about '75. But it's 
really a guess, because I didn't even look at calendars back then 
very much. I wrote down that I thought it was '75.  
Long:  Okay.  
Van Brunt:  And I came up here, and I lived at “193 Gay Paree” [Paris], which 
was a lesbian household. It was so much fun. It was on Washington 
and Second. They had business cards, and it said, "193 Gay Paris. 
Conveniently located next to the train tracks and under the 
freeway," which is what it was. It was a very noisy little 
neighborhood, but lots and lots of fun.  
Long:  Who else lived there?  
Van Brunt:  A woman named Varushka, who was Australian. Casey— whose 
name I can't remember. She's now a very prominent architect, I 
think, in Portland. I don't remember other names there.  
 And then I moved— I think from there I moved to Fourth Street, 
this big old falling down house that had lesbians on every floor. I 
think it was three or four floors  [two or three floors]. And even one 
back out in the shed. It was a crazy little fire trap, because every 
single apartment in that place there were— one, two, three, four— 
maybe four or five apartments had no heat. And so we all had little 
trash burners, which are made from really thin, really thin, metal. It 
would glow red when the fire got too hot. And we would all have  
them going all the time in the winter time. And it was a little scary. 
I mean my bathroom was— you had to go out of my apartment 
and onto a porch, that was very cold in the winter, to the bathroom. 
And the porch was a screen porch, so you couldn't— you could 
hook the screen door, but you couldn't really lock it.  
 It was a sketchy place to live, but lots of fun. Marlene Drescher 
lived there for a little while. And a woman named Delia. Nelly 
Kauffer lived there for a while. Who else? A wonderful woman 
named Angel, who wrote poetry. And from there— 
Raiskin:  What made that so fun to live together?  
Van Brunt:  Oh, I just really liked the camaraderie amongst those women. They 
were all real interesting women. I like them all.  
Long:  Do you remember what they did for a living?  
Van Brunt:  I think— Well, Marlene was in law school. Nelly, she might have 
been working at Starflower at that point. Delia— no, I don't 
remember very much.  
Raiskin:  Did you have parties?  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], occasionally. Not very often.  
Raiskin:  Party house.  
Van Brunt:  Not really. Just a fun house.  
Raiskin:  And you were doing carpentry at the time?   
Van Brunt:  Yeah.  
Long:  Can you explain to us how you became a carpenter?  
Van Brunt:  Well, I became a carpenter in California.  
Raiskin:  In Bolinas? 
Van Brunt:  In Bolinas, yeah I took the class. And then I worked with a guy who 
was a carpenter who taught me a lot, taught me most of what I 
knew, really. And then when I got to Eugene, I already knew some 
people, some women, who worked as carpenters and I had worked 
with them. And so we continued to work together and came up 
with this idea, there were some other women doing carpentry— 
and we came up with this idea of having a collective of women 
doing carpentry, and we named it Crescent Construction. And it 
was difficult.  
 I mean, it was fun in a way, but we were trying to be so fair and 
equal with each other. I was doing carpentry full time, training 
other women who didn't know anything about carpentry to be 
carpenters, and we were all getting the same pay because that's fair, 
right? And after a while it didn't seem right to me, I just had a hard 
time. We were making $5 an hour. So there were some arguments 
and discussions about that, of course, and eventually I quit 
Crescent, and started working with other construction companies 
with men, to make more money.  
Long:  How long were you with Crescent Construction?   
Van Brunt:  Couldn't tell you.  
Long:  How did you choose the name?  
Van Brunt:  Couldn't tell you. Don't know.  
Raiskin:  What kind of things would you build?  
Van Brunt:  Well, we did mostly remodeling, residential remodeling. I don't 
think we did any new construction per se, but there were— the two 
women who were kind of the prime movers behind it, Rena Klein 
and Susan Baker, were both architects. They graduated from U  of 
O, and they were very good carpenters, too. And what was I going 
to say about them? I can't remember. What did you ask me?  
Raiskin:  What kind of things you built, and you said mostly remodels.  
Van Brunt:  Oh. Well, I was going to say, Rena and Susan may have done some 
new construction. I don't remember, because they were the ones 
who probably knew how to do every single part of it. But the rest of 
us just did remodels, and additions, things like that.  
Raiskin:  Were you involved with anybody at the time?  
Van Brunt:  Not early on. I think when I met Rakar in 1977 or '78, I think she 
was my first Eugene girlfriend, and it only lasted forty years. It's 
still lasting.  
Raiskin:  And counting, yeah.  
Van Brunt:  Yeah.   
Raiskin:  So where did you meet Rakar?  
Van Brunt:  Well, I was— you know— yeah, I had some girlfriends.  
Raiskin:  Now that you recall.  
Van Brunt:  Yeah. Where was Rakar?  
Raiskin:  Well, back to what Eugene was like, then.  
Van Brunt:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What was it like, and also where did lesbians meet? And, what 
kinds of social things were happening?  
Van Brunt:  Well, it was like a wonderland. It was just amazing because of all 
the women-owned and operated businesses. And when I say 
women, that's mostly lesbians. Starflower was, I don't know, 80 or 
90 percent  lesbians. And there were some men in the collective, too. 
And Crescent was all lesbians. But there was Gertrude's Café, 
which was a wonderful place for us to be, just hang out, or eat, or 
play music, or just have fun. And let's see.  
 There was a lot of self-defense  stuff going on that lesbians were 
very involved in. I was in a karate class. And Rena, of Crescent 
Construction, was my sensei in that class. And then there was 
Amazon Kung Fu, and many, many women that I knew were in 
that. So there was a lot of stuff around self-defense. I'm trying to 
remember when Nadia came. Much later, I think, not sure. But she 
got Self-Defense  from  the Inside Out going here, which was also  
wonderful. Self-defense  program for women, specifically, because 
these others weren't. Amazon Kung Fu was, but karate wasn't.  
 Starflower, of course, was one of the main places where lesbians 
were, and lesbians went. I did some remodeling there when they 
moved from Lincoln Street out to wherever the next warehouse 
was, the new warehouse.  And while I was working at— I had this 
wonderful dog named Leafy Greens, and she went with me  
everywhere. She went to all my jobs, and stayed all day working 
with me. She could climb ladders.  
 But anyway, I was doing this remodeling job at Starflower, and 
Leafy was there, and this woman came over and she said, "Who is 
this?" And I said, "That's Leafy Greens." And that woman was 
Rakar. And Rakar was the transition person from building to 
building for Starflower. I sort of got to know her because I was 
doing the remodel. We pretty— we really hit it off, pretty quickly.  
Raiskin:  What did you  like about Rakar?  
Van Brunt:  Oh, well, that's kind of a long story. Going back to Cabbage Lane, 
single summer, I met Rakar there. And she has said that when she 
heard my southern accent, she wanted to turn around and run 
away because she had just left the  South. She had just gotten here 
and left the South, and she wanted to be away, away, away. And I 
had struggled with all these feelings about being a southerner, all 
of them negative. And I had just met this other southern woman 
who really helped me to see  that I was okay. Just because I was  
southern, didn't mean I wasn't okay. And so, Rakar's southern 
accent didn't intimidate me, but mine did her.  
Raiskin:  Where is she from?  
Van Brunt:  Georgia. I think I've lost track.  
Raiskin:  What did you like about Rakar? 
Van Brunt:  Oh, what did I like about her? Well, she was a beautiful, smart, 
very caring and loving, and mostly because she fell in love with my 
dog instantly. And my dog had always been a one woman dog, 
until Rakar came along, so that meant a lot. And because she was 
an artist, and she was just a great woman.  
Raiskin:  So, did you move in together soon after that?  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative], pretty soon. We did a trial run for a few 
months. I lived with her for a few months, and then I went back to  
the big old falling down house. And we decided that we liked 
living together, so we started living together and have been ever 
since, in the same house, on the same street, the same 
neighborhood.  
Long:  Did you get married?  
Van Brunt:  We did, eventually, yes. Thirty-six years later.  
Long:  So you've been together— 
Van Brunt:  Forty years.   
Long:  Forty years.  
Van Brunt:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. Let me look at my notes and see if I'm 
forgetting anything. Oh, yeah, I forgot. I lived in Lorane for a while. 
There were these cabins on the river out there. There were like four 
or five cabins that lesbians lived in. I lived with a woman named 
Thea, and right next door to us were the commies. And the 
commies were socialists, you know. There was a lot of that 
happening then, too. There's a lot of heavy duty politics happening 
in the lesbian community in Eugene. That was very interesting, all 
those women out there— 
Long:  Were the commies lesbians?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah.  
Long:  Okay.  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  Who  owned those cabins?  
Van Brunt:  I don't know. I don't know. They were funky. But I guess we were 
all much more willing to live in funky places then. It didn't matter 
that much.  
Long:  What did you find about carpentry that was fulfilling to you?  
Van Brunt:  I just loved being able to start with nothing and create something 
that was really— a physical thing, you know? And I loved the 
mental work, the figuring out, and the problem solving involved in  
it. I loved swaggering around in my carpentry belt, and feeling 
kind of butch, which I wasn't. But I wanted to be, so I tried.  
Long:  What was that like, during that time? The butch-femme dynamic?  
Van Brunt:  Well, it wasn't talked about till a little— I don't remember people 
talking about it much. Well now, that's not true. But I remember it 
being talked about a lot like when I was living in the old falling 
down house. I didn't want to identify either way, but everybody 
identified me as a femme. And Rakar is a butch, but we didn't take 
those to heart really. We didn't get into that very much.  
Long:  When you think back— 
Van Brunt:  But other people did.  
Long:  When you think back on those times, can you describe for us what 
a typical weekend might have been in the lesbian community in 
Eugene?  
Van Brunt:  No. No.  
Long:  Did you go to bars?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah, we went to the Riv Room.  
Long:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Van Brunt:  And Thursday night was women's night, I think.  
Raiskin:  Did you find that to be fun?   
Van Brunt:  Yeah, I did. I did a lot of dancing, a lot of dancing. And when I was 
out in those cabins, all of us would get together and come into 
Eugene on Thursday night and dance our brains out. And then 
drive home, back to our little cabins. And then when I lived in 
Eugene, I went there a lot, too.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember the Referendum 51?  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Raiskin:  Or, any of the other measures, what it was like for you and for your 
community to deal with those.  
Van Brunt:  It was pretty awful. We had to deal with all of them. They just 
seemed to come one after another. The OCA was really active then. 
It was horrifying to have that in your face all the time, and have to 
deal with it all the time, but we did.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what people did to combat Measure 9? Or, try to 
get 51 passed?  
Van Brunt:  I remember some phone banking. I remember some canvasing.  
Raiskin:  Was that scary, to knock on people's doors and talk about this?  
Van Brunt:  Yes. Yes. I did have doors slammed in my face,  so it was scary. But 
it also was rewarding sometimes, and it was good when we could 
defeat them. Also, at some point in all this, I became a graphic 
designer. I don't know when. Late '70s. And I did some graphic  
design, Rakar and I did graphic design work  for all the “No On…” 
measure things.  
Raiskin:  So, is that like signs and buttons?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah, signs, and logos, and buttons, and all that stuff.  
Raiskin:  So that was you, those buttons?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah. But that's mostly what I remember about— Laurie McClain 
was part of a— I don't know if it was a group or just two women 
who wrote a book about that. And I think you all probably have 
that book, I hope.  
Long:  We do now.  
Van Brunt:  Good. Good.  
Raiskin:  And so this brings us up into the— where are we, in the '80s?  
Long:  In the '90s, early '90s.  
Van Brunt:  Nineties? What happened to the '80s?  
Long:  Well, with Measure 9 was early '90s.  
Raiskin:  What happened to the '80s? What was happening to you in the 
'80s?  
Van Brunt:  Well, I was newly in love, and living with my love. We decided we 
wanted to live out on the coast, at least briefly. So, we rented out 
our house in Eugene, and moved out to Port Orford, of all places.  
Because Elizabeth, in Wolf Creek, had a bought a little piece of land 
there, and she said we were welcome to camp there. So, we went 
and camped there until it got too cold and rainy, and then we 
eventually found a house, and lived in Port Orford for— I don't 
know, maybe three years. Two or three years. And then we moved 
up to Bandon , and  then we moved to Newport. And the main 
reason we moved to Newport was because we wanted to be 
amongst more lesbians. And you certainly couldn't find them in 
Port Orford. We did have some friends nearby though, and that 
was good.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel very visible as lesbians in Port Orford?  
Van Brunt:  Well, we weren't in the closet. I honestly don't know how people 
perceived us.  
Raiskin:  Were you doing carpentry there?  
Van Brunt:  I was doing whatever I could to make money. I painted a three 
story motel there, by myself. And I worked for a while at the 
Bandon Historical Society. That's sort of where I became a graphic 
designer. I worked— our two friends there lived in Langlois, and 
they were Elana  Dykewoman and Dolphin, whose  last name I can't 
remember. Elana and I worked at the Bandon Historical Society. 
She was the printer, and I was the graphic designer. And she 
printed on all these antique printing presses and machines.  
 We had a lot of fun. We used to ride together up to Bandon. But 
one thing about living out in Port Orford that was really nice was  
that lots and lots people came out to visit us, a lot of women from 
Eugene. And the kind of visits you get when you live with 
somebody for three, or four, or five days is so different than 
catching them for lunch every two or three weeks, or less. That was 
really special, having all those friends come out. We lived in a 
spectacular place in Port Orford. It overlooked the ocean, and you 
could see the sunset come up in the east, and then go down in the 
west from where we were. It was just amazing.  
 When we moved to Newport, we did indeed find a big lesbian 
community there. They had a softball team. I think they might have 
had two women's softball teams. And lots of parties, and 
unfortunately, lots and lots of alcohol. That became hard for us 
after a while. We bought a sign shop in Newport and ran it for not 
very long, maybe a year, year and a half. We didn't know anything 
about making signs, but we learned. And I loved that, I just loved 
it. When we got back from that stint out at the coast, I got a job as a 
bulletin painter. Do you know what bulletin— 
Raiskin:  What's a bulletin painter?  
Van Brunt:  You know, billboards?  
Raiskin:  Oh, yeah.  
Van Brunt:  Really big billboards. Back when they were painted. They're all 
digital now, they're all printed. But back then, they were hand 
painted. And it was way, way fun, except for the men I had to work 
with. But it was lots of fun.   
Long:  What were some of the conflicts with the men that you worked 
with?  
Van Brunt:  Well, they were— good old boys, you know? They come to work 
drunk. One of them locked himself in the bathroom one time and 
just drank for a day and a half, nobody could get him out. And they 
would snicker about me sometimes. I didn't always understand 
what  they were snickering about. I think they respected me as a 
bulletin painter because I was very good at it, but certainly wasn't 
friends with them. And where to go from there?  
 Oh, and yeah, when I was doing bulletin painting, it was right 
when bulletins were all becoming digitally printed. And there 
was— painters were no longer needed. That was kind of the end of 
that, and I went into graphic design. I did that most of the '90s and 
into the 2000s.  
Raiskin:  Who would you work for? Who would hire you to do graphic 
design?  
Van Brunt:  I had my own business for some of the time. And then I got really 
tired of having to do everything, especially marketing.  
Raiskin:  But what were you designing?  
Van Brunt:  I was designing— just marketing materials for businesses. I took a 
job at the Attorney General's— what is it called— Attorney 
General's Sexual Assault Task Force. I was the executive assistant, 
and I had never done a job like that before. And I didn't do it very  
well. I didn't last there. And the last job I had before I retired was at 
U of O in the Continuing Ed department, downtown in the old 
Register-Guard  building. That was a good job, but I was kind of 
losing it. I had a really, really hard time. My parents were dying in 
Tallahassee, and I was extremely depressed, and my dog died. It 
was like one thing after another, and I didn't last there, either. I left 
and I decided to retire. That was in 2008.  
Raiskin:  And what's retirement been like for you?  
Van Brunt:  It's been good. I always thought it would be heaven, it's not really 
heaven. I wish I'd been able to retire when my body was healthier, 
but I love not having to work. I love it. I'm not one of those people 
who ever loved their jobs, really, except for bulletin painting.  
Raiskin:  Do you do something now with all that creativity?  
Van Brunt:  I paint. I do watercolor painting, mostly just in a class though, not 
on my own. And I do like that a lot.  
Raiskin:  What do you think— how  do you see aging in the Eugene lesbian 
community?  
Van Brunt:  I think a lot of us have gotten pretty isolated from each other. I 
have very few connections with— and I certainly have no sense of 
community anymore, the way I did back in the '70s and '80s, and a 
little in the '90s.  
Raiskin:  Why do you think that is?   
Van Brunt:  I don't know. I think we just had to get more and more responsible. 
I don't know if that's the word, but— had to fit in more in order to 
work, in order to make money. I'm grasping here. I don't know.  
Raiskin:  Do you miss— 
Van Brunt:  As an older lesbian, I know Rakar and I have both gotten to be 
homebodies, and we just really— we don't go out much at all. We 
don't have many connections with other lesbians. The only big 
activity I do regularly is with SURJ.  
Raiskin:  Showing Up for Racial Justice?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah. I'm pretty involved with SURJ, so that's kind of my outside 
thing I do.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about SURJ, because it's fairly new?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah. Well, the concept is that it is white people's responsibility to 
get rid of racism. It is not the responsibility of people of color. And 
so SURJ is mainly white people, it's not exclusive at all, but we do 
acknowledge that it is our responsibility. And so the group itself is 
almost entirely white people. There are one or two people of color 
who come regularly. And we just work on everything we can to try 
to bring racial justice to the fore, so that people learn about what's 
going on.  
Raiskin:  How do you do that?   
Van Brunt:  Well, I was on this committee to try to get as many people, as many 
groups of people  as possible to watch the film 13th. And we did 
that for a while, and lots of people did watch it. And then we had a 
big event, I don't know if you went to it, at TBI in May called 
“Beyond 13th.” We had speakers, and dinner— 
Raiskin:  This is at  Temple Beth Israel.  
Van Brunt:  Yeah. Speakers and a dinner, and audience questions and feedback, 
and it was very successful. Now, I don't think there's anything 
going on with 13th that I'm aware of. But we're working on trying 
to reunite families  at the border in those horrible facilities. Just— 
well, you know, there's so many things going on. It's like you could 
spend twenty-four  hours a day working on these things. Because of 
all that guilt I carried about being a southerner, I find it really 
clarifying now to understand who needs to work on racial justice, 
and it's me. It needs to be me. So, it feels good. Really good people 
in the group.  
 But, really and truly, I'm very much a homebody. I go to movies 
occasionally, sometimes with SURJ friends,  sometimes with other 
friends, sometimes by myself, sometimes with Rakar. And Rakar is 
very much a homebody, even more than I am, I would say. But she 
stays connected through email and such with people. But it's really 
different. It's really different now,  and part of it is our bodies falling 
apart. I'm having a problem now with walking any real distance, 
and my lower back is very fragile. I've had two knee replacements. 
There's so many things I used to do that I can't do anymore.   
Raiskin:  If you could envision a rebirth of lesbian community for older 
women, what would you imagine?  
Van Brunt:  Ooh— Well, I haven't imagined that, but that sounds good. Yeah, it 
would be great to be able to support each other and talk about what 
we're going through. And maybe provide more opportunities to 
enjoy our time, our lives.  
Raiskin:  Somebody suggested taking over one of the floors of the Eugene 
Hotel; it would be an all lesbian floor.  
Van Brunt:  That sounds nice. Yep.  
Long:  When you think back on living in Eugene, all those years, and in 
those early years when the lesbian community was getting 
established, have you thought about why Eugene might have had a 
large lesbian community? I'm wondering, what was it about 
Eugene?  
Van Brunt:  Yeah. I wonder that, too. I don't know. I don't think it related to the 
university being here, but it might have tangentially. There were 
just a lot of lesbians here, and I don't know if the community had 
already been established enough when the big flowering happened, 
or not. I don't know. Maybe a lot of women were just feeling like 
they could come out at that point. I don't know.  
Raiskin:  Can you articulate what brought you the most happiness about that 
time?   
Van Brunt:  It's that feeling of connection with women I really cared about, and 
admired, and had fun with, loved.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about your marriage to Rakar?  
Van Brunt:  Well, it hasn't always been easy being together, but I'd say mostly 
it's just been pure love that's gotten us through a lot, and a lot of 
hard work. I found out when I was— I don't know how old I was— 
about sixty-five or something, that I had ADD, and always had 
had, but I didn't know it. So, I was undiagnosed, but that has had a 
huge effect on our relationship. But we didn't understand it, we 
didn't know why I did certain things the way I did, or I forgot  
things, or all this stuff. That's been a big part of what we struggle 
with in our relationship, but for the most part I would say we get 
along really well. We really have fun together and love each other.  
Raiskin:  When did you get married?  
Van Brunt:  Two thousand fourteen. That's the time we got legally married. We 
got married in Portland, too, but they sent us our check back. Did 
you get married in Portland?  
Raiskin:  That was sad. That was sad.  
Van Brunt:  It was. It was.  
Raiskin:  —marriages annulled.  
Van Brunt:  Yep. But I can't really say that I experience a difference.   
Raiskin:  And even with the federally recognized marriage, has that made 
any difference to you? Bureaucratically, or financially?  
Van Brunt:  Well— the only financial thing I can think of is the social security 
protection that we have now. What do you mean, bureaucratically?  
Raiskin:  Well, in terms of being recognized as spouses, whether that makes 
a difference in anything in your life. Whether  it's home owning, 
or— 
Long:  Medical— 
Raiskin:  —medical, wills— 
Long:  procedures.  
Raiskin:  —whether you had all that in place already, or whether— 
Van Brunt:  Yeah, we did a lot of work to protect ourselves, lot of legal, lawyer 
work— and wills, and powers of attorney, and all that stuff. But 
I've never had any problem with medical people, being out. It was 
interesting because as soon as we got married, it felt like the whole 
world just accepted it. I'm sure that's not true for everybody, and 
certainly depending on where you live. But for me, it just felt like, 
eh. You know? But it has been easy for me in Eugene to be a 
lesbian, to be out. I can count the times I've really stung by 
homophobia, other than those measures, on two hands I would say.  
Raiskin:  That  actually sounds like a lot to me.  
Van Brunt:  Yeah, well— yeah.   
Raiskin:  Do you think when you were in the '70s here, could you have 
imagined that lesbians could legally marry? Does that seem like 
fast that that's happened, or not?  
Van Brunt:  Does it seem like it happened fast?  
Raiskin:  To see that change happen quickly, or not?  
Van Brunt:  Well, for a long time I didn't relate to that push. I didn't think it was 
a thought that of all the things that lesbians and gay men had to 
deal with that wasn't at the top of the list at all for me for a long 
time. And it never really got to the top of the list. But, I was 
surprised when the Supreme Court made that decision, happily 
surprised. And I was glad to have that acknowledgement of my 
relationship, but it wasn't— I don't know if it felt like it happened 
fast.  
Raiskin:  What would you—  
Van Brunt:  It did. Yeah, it did. Thinking back on it. It felt like there was all this 
momentum for a few years, and then boom, it happened.  
Raiskin:  Can you remember what you would've put at the top of the list of 
what gay men and lesbians needed?  
Van Brunt:  Well, I guess just those general protections, legal protections, that 
we didn't have. Like the medical stuff, particularly, and wills, 
and— I mean, wills were a way to protect, but not the way straight 
people were able to be protected.   
Raiskin:  All those measures also were about protections against 
discrimination, and housing, and employment— 
Van Brunt:  Yes, all that stuff. I definitely would put all those things above 
marriage. But I think marriage, the fact that we can get married 
now, is just another step toward those things, too, is creating more 
acceptance. I'm a little afraid because of who is in the White House 
right now, and all those people in power over there. But generally 
speaking, I think that marriage was another step forward for all of 
us, and will and did affect those things, too. I hope.  
Raiskin:  Is there any part of your life we haven't asked you about that is 
important?  
Van Brunt:  Wow. Oh, I remember an organization that got started— when was 
that? Probably the early '80s, I think. Lesbians in Coalition Against 
Racism and Anti-Semitism. Do you remember that?  
Raiskin:  No.  
Van Brunt:  That— 
Raiskin:  Where did it meet? And who was in it? And what did you do?  
Van Brunt:  I think we talked a lot. We tried to connect with other groups like 
CALC.  
Raiskin:  That's Clergy and Laity Concerned.  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Raiskin:  Community group. 
Van Brunt:  It was. It's the same name, but it—  
Raiskin:  —new name now.  
Van Brunt:  —stands for different things.  
Raiskin:  Right.  
Van Brunt:  They called it LIC. Somebody called it LIC— LIC R ASS, but I'm not 
sure how they got that out of racism and anti-Semitism. Lesbians in 
Coalition, LIC, against racism, R, and anti-Semitism— sort of ass.  
Raiskin:  LIC R ASS.  
Van Brunt:  LIC R ASS. Nadia was in that.  
Raiskin:  Nadia Telsey? 
Van Brunt:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. And Sue Dotstetter, and me, and— I 
honestly, my memory's not very good, looking back like that. But, 
yeah, I don't remember either, what we actually did, other than 
trying to raise our own consciousnesses.  
Raiskin:  Well, sounds a lot like SURJ.  
Van Brunt:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Earlier version of SURJ.  
Van Brunt:  Yeah.   
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Van Brunt:  That's true.   
Raiskin:  Your interest has stayed the same over the years.  
Van Brunt:  Uh-huh [affirmative], but it was just lesbians, that's the difference.  
Raiskin:  Oh, right.  
Van Brunt:  And SURJ is part of a national group. But yes, the focus was 
similar. Are we done  yet? [laughs]  
Raiskin:  Well, we really like to thank you.  
Long:  Yes. 
Van Brunt:  Thank you.  
Long:  Thank you  very much.  
Raiskin:  —for your memories.  
Van Brunt:  Oh, you're so welcome.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  