 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Kaseja  Wilder  on Tuesday, August 
28, 2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviews are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender  and Sexuality Studies.  
 Kaseja, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project, and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Wilder:  I totally agree.  
Long:  Fantastic! Thank you so much.  Why don't we just begin with a very 
basic question. Can you tell us when and where you were born, 
and where you grew up?  
Wilder:  I was born in September of 1961 in Seattle, and then— My dad was 
in the military, so we lived in the Bothell/Seattle area, we lived in 
San Diego, we lived in Minnesota, and then for eight years we lived 
on base, Andrews Air Force Base in Washington, D.C., which was 
important because I actually got bused into Capitol Hill when they 
did the busing, so I got to be part of that. It was very exciting and 
scary. Then my dad got retired from the military and we moved 
back to the Pacific Northwest in '76. Spring of '76. And then we 
moved into Eugene in August or something like that, of 1976. 
That's when I moved to Eugene.  
Long:  Okay.  
Wilder:  With my family. I was fifteen  at the time.  
Long:  And what were your impressions of Eugene?  
Wilder:  It was small. But it was bigger than my grandparents' place, 
because we spent a few months there and it was rural, and that was 
very difficult for a fifteen year old. 
 Yeah, I went to junior high, Roosevelt Junior High, and then South 
Eugene High. I think it was a fine place to be. I was struggling with 
a lot of family trauma,  so I'm not really sure what my— I do  
remember, though, before I came out— I don't know how old I 
was, but we could probably do the math— where someone was 
doing one of those No On 9 things, and they came to the door, and 
I opened the door, and they said, "We're people, too." My family 
was Mormon. I said, "I'm sorry, I can't talk to you." I felt genuinely 
sorry, but I knew that they weren't someone I could talk to. I can't 
remember their gender, I just knew that they were telling me they 
were gay and it was really overwhelming. I remember that.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us something about your family and the atmosphere 
and religion you were raised in, and how that may have affected 
you?  
Wilder:  Yeah. Being raised Mormon, there was a certain— definitely gender 
bifurcation— "Men do this; women do that"— and there was a 
hierarchy of— well, it was patriarchal, so you submit to your 
father, and then later, you submit to your husband. If you get old 
enough and you don't have a husband, you have to submit to your 
brothers. And then above your father is the bishop, and above the 
bishop is the state president, and above that— I mean, it just goes 
up to the prophet. All men. Women can't hold the priesthood. So, 
that all seemed—  
 I mean, there's really good things that I got from the Mormon 
Church. Like, my family moved and moved and moved— every 
eighteen  months, we moved— and everywhere we went, the 
church was the same. It was laid out the same, the curriculum was 
the same, the protocols were the same, the expectations were the  
same. There was an emphasis on journal-writing and food 
preservation and public speaking. I learned, at a very early age, to 
get up in front of my whole congregation on a topic. I think that's 
why I like to do public speaking now. The more, the merrier. 
There's only two of you, come on!  
 I think all those things were really good for me, but then when 
things started to fall apart in my family, I was sort of lost, because I 
had been so sheltered— no sex, no drugs, no rock and roll  kind of 
thing— that when I broke away from my family, coupled with this 
childhood sexual abuse, I was sort of thrown into an adult milieu in 
a way that I just didn't know how to handle. It got better when I 
came out as a lesbian, but for a few years there, I was just doing a 
lot of drugs and having sex with men that I didn't know very well, 
and I got married to an alcoholic for a while, and then I divorced 
him— 
Raiskin:  What age was all that?  
Wilder:  I moved out when I was seventeen. My mother discovered that my 
uncle had been molesting  me, and so she decided I didn't belong in 
high school anymore. So she helped me get into Lane Community 
College with a GED. I met Tom there, and then— I went to LCC 
when I was seventeen, and I got married when I was eighteen. And 
then I came out when I was twenty-one, but— yeah, I got married 
when I was eighteen, I came out when I was twenty-one. Like, just 
twenty-one. I came out in October, and my birthday was in 
September.   
 So that was great, because at that time, it was the women's bars— 
specifically the Riviera Room. That was women's night, Thursday 
night. I went every Thursday night. I think I can remember the first 
time I walked into a bar that was all women. I was just like, "I 
found it. I'm home. This is my home. This is where I belong." I was 
twenty-one, I was effusive— you can tell I have kind of an effusive 
personality anyway, and I just came into this situation going, "We 
are family," [sings] you know? Whatever it was, I was out there. I 
rarely danced with one person, until I got a girlfriend, and then I 
would dance with her for the slow dances, but— the fast dances, I 
was too busy— I used the whole floor. I just used the whole floor. 
That was really something for me. It felt like a place where I knew 
everybody. It was a place where I knew everybody, so that was 
great. I divorced Tom, and that was good.  
Long:  Can we back up for a second?  
Wilder:  Yeah.  
Long:  When you got married, did you know you were a lesbian?  
Wilder:  Oh, no! Heavens no. No. When I was fifteen, I went on some kind 
of camping trip that I very ill remember, and there was a girl there 
who was a sister of my boyfriend, and we held hands during the 
night and I was like, "Oh, well, I wonder what this is about." So that 
was a memory that I looked back on, but no, I had no— there was 
no clue. And in the Mormon Church, there aren't even lesbians. 
There's only gay men. "A man shall not lie with another man." They  
don't say anything about the women. It wasn't like— I didn't 
even— it wasn't— Nowhere there.  
Raiskin: You didn't have negative ideas, either?  
Wilder:  No, not negative. I knew gay men weren't supposed to do what 
they were doing, and lesbians were just not even— there  was no 
radar for me at all. I was supposed to grow up, get married, have 
kids. That's what I thought I was going to do.  
Long:  There's a short time change from being age eighteen  and being 
married, and twenty-one, when you came out. What was it that put 
you on that path?  
Wilder:  Well, my husband was an alcoholic and a pot addict, and I was a 
trauma survivor, and I didn't know that, either, so there were lots 
of problems in our relationship. There was lots of substance use— 
on his part, I would say abuse. Lots of substance use on my part. 
He basically— because  he was an addict, he fed me as much 
alcohol and marijuana that I could possibly take in, and I was 
young. I was very susceptible to whatever was going on around 
me.  
 When things started to fall apart in our relationship— which was 
pretty inevitable, because I was seventeen, he was twenty-five, he 
was an alcoholic. He was in love with me, but he didn't know what 
that meant. I didn't know what that meant. And I don't even know 
how I found lesbians. I know that I was taking Japanese, and that 
Julie Porter was in my Japanese class. Now, Julie Porter was my—  
you know how they say for birders, you get a bird, and that's how 
you become a birder? Well, for the birds, it's blue heron, and for the 
lesbians, it's Julie Porter.  
 When I found out she was a lesbian, through a colleague of ours— 
a classmate who wasn't a lesbian, but maybe she would've called 
herself queer, except we didn't have that word then. She was kind 
of flexy somehow. She was like, "Yeah, Julie Porter's a lesbian," and 
I was like, "A lesbian? Is that what a lesbian looks like?" And I just 
started watching every move Julie Porter made. "Is that how a 
lesbian brushes her teeth? Is that how a lesbian carries her books?" I 
was going into classrooms— I was a student at the time. I was 
going into classrooms, empty classrooms, and writing with the 
chalk, "We are everywhere," and putting the double women's 
symbol. I didn't know I was a lesbian yet. I didn't know what I was 
doing, but there was something in there, so that was my first, like, 
"Huh, what's going on here?" And then there was Julie Porter.  
 Julie Porter was very patient with me, and invited me to whatever 
she invited me to, movies or whatever. Then, of course, there was 
the Gay and Lesbian Alliance, which is what it was called then, 
and— 
Long:  So this is when you're at UO?  
Wilder:  Yeah, I was at U of O. Mm-hmm (affirmative). Yep. Tom and I 
moved from LCC to U of O. We actually took Japanese together, 
and then he wasn't doing well in Japanese, and other things  
happened for him, and— I don't know exactly what happened for 
him, because I stopped paying attention to him. Then I started 
taking women's studies classes, and then I just dropped out. I just 
dropped out. Back in that day, if you dropped out, the ‘F’s that you 
got just eventually turned to ‘I’s. That doesn't happen anymore. 
Just incomplete. So it didn't hurt my GPA, but I just, I tanked my 
last term completely.  
Raiskin:  What were the women's studies classes like for you?  
Wilder:  I can't remember them. I don't think I took them very long. I think I 
was transferring from education— because— okay, so I came out as 
a lesbian, I came out as a feminist, I came out as a witch, I was still 
a trauma survivor with no knowing of that. The energy in the 
women's community was so intense. We were just so— there was 
like this container that was just so strong, like, "We are each other's 
people." And you could be— like, yesterday you broke up with 
your boyfriend, and you walk into a room and you say, "I've found 
it," and everyone's like, "Yeah, welcome to the club!"  
 I never encountered that thing where some women are like, "Are 
you really a lesbian?" If you said you were a lesbian, you were in. 
You were just in. And that was very heady. That was very exciting. 
There were all these people who loved me instantly, and I liked 
that. I actually spent quite a bit of my young adult into my middle 
age seeking that instant kind of family, which was good in some 
ways, but maladaptive in others, you know? I think it was kind of a 
trauma response, like, "Oh, finally, I'm going to be safe! Look at all  
these beautiful people! And now I'm going to learn how to spell 
‘womyn’ with a ‘y’," and all that kind of stuff.  
Long:  So you were at UO during what period?  
Wilder:  I came to the University of Oregon in— I wrote it on the chronolog. 
Eighty-one? 
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Wilder: Eighty  or '81. Yeah, '80, probably. And then I came out in '82. And 
then shortly after I came out, I dropped out of school, and I'm not 
sure exactly what I did right after I dropped out of school. I think I 
did a bunch of different things. I definitely worked at Genesis Juice, 
so I was in a collective there. I rode my bike everywhere. I didn't 
have a car in those days. I worked on Womyn's Press  with Betsy 
Brown and Yael  and a couple of other women who came in and 
out. Nancy Louise was part of that crowd for a while. She's now— I 
don't know if you know, but she's a caretaker at OWL Farm now, 
Nancy Louise.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us about the press a little bit?  
Wilder:  The press was— I mean, Betsy was the queen. She was definitely 
the queen. She's the one  who held that space for all those years, and 
it was a great place to be. I'm the one who instigated calling it 
‘Womyn's Press’ with a ‘Y’. Gail was a part of that, too, but she was 
a little less of a— Gail Elber. She was a little less of a primary role. 
It was really— I mean, Betsy Brown is really the one who held that  
for all those years. Not that she didn't have a lot of help. Betsy 
Brown probably wouldn't say, "I'm the one who held that all those 
years." She probably wouldn't say it that way. She's a very humble, 
very dedicated lesbian, very dedicated to women, and it was fun to 
work with her. She was so earnest. She was just— did you ever 
meet Betsy? Oh, she was so earnest. She would go like, "I just think 
everybody should have a pocketknife, so I'm going to start the 
lesbian pocketknife project, because I think it's so important that 
every woman be empowered, and pocketknives are just so good!" 
She was like that, you know? She was freaking adorable. Loved 
cats, loved pocketknives, loved women.  
 Years later, when my partner— who was a lesbian— decided to be 
a man, I decided I couldn't identify as a lesbian. I kind of played 
with ‘bisexual’ and ‘queer’ for a while. When I came out as 
bisexual, my memory of the narrative is that Betsy couldn't be my 
friend  anymore because I had kind of gone over to the other side. 
And it was still in that time where bisexuals were fence-sitters and 
all that kind of stuff, but my partner was turning into a man. I 
didn't feel like I could call myself— I knew lesbians who did.  They 
said, "My identity is my identity. You do whatever you want. I'm 
still a lesbian." But I felt like, if my partner's a man— I didn't love it 
when Holly Near said that she was bisexual. I mean, that she was 
sleeping with a man, but she was still lesbian. I'm like, "Lesbian 
means something, and if you're sleeping with a man— " I mean, 
everyone has a right to self identify, but I didn't—  
 And, in my heart of hearts, all those years that I was trying to 
figure out my scene around gender, I felt like there was something 
lesbian inside. Like, inside me, there  was like, that thing that I 
didn't know when I was fifteen. I felt like, during those years, I 
knew it, but I couldn't really claim it because my partner was male. 
Even if he used to be female.  
 So anyway, I lost Betsy, and then Betsy left and we all lost her. We 
didn't know where she was for a while. She had a therapist who 
told her that she should just cut all ties with Eugene, which made 
us all very sad. So none of us knew where she was for a really long 
time, and then when we found her again, she had cancer and 
passed away shortly after we found her. It was really sad. But she 
wrote a lot, so anybody who wants to know what she was thinking 
during those years, she was a prolific writer. She was so wonderful.  
 Anyway, Womyn's Press. It was great! We met once a week, or 
something like that, and then things would heat up right before 
press time. And we did it on light tables. This is way before 
computers, so we would type up our— There's a word for it. Type  
up our— the words, there's an actual word for it— and we'd put 
them in the columns, and then we'd put it on the light table, and 
then I don't know what happened after that. Something from the 
light table, somehow that went to the— we used to use the same 
place that Register-Guard  used. It was over in Springfield. Someone 
would take the— we’d  tape it to the big pieces of paper? I— the 
words are all gone from me. But there was this whole thing that we  
learned how to do that was the way they used to do newspapers. 
Of course, nobody does it that way anymore, so— that was just fun, 
just to get everything exactly right. I'm not a prolific artist, but  I 
could do little spirals and doody-dads, and that was helpful and— 
Raiskin:  What kind things did you publish?  
Wilder: We wrote about things that were happening in the community, 
and— 
Long:  Was the title called "Womyn's Press"? 
Wilder:  Womyn's Press. 
Long:  Yes, okay.  
Wilder:  So, Womyn's Press. 
Long:  And it's the title of the newsletter.  
Wilder:  Yeah, and it was ‘women's’ with an ‘e’ for a long time— It started 
in '70-something— and went until— you probably have copies of 
Womyn's Press. 
Long:  Yeah.  
Wilder:  Yeah. Then, I don't know what happened, but eventually there 
wasn't enough energy for it, so it— and it was old. It  was, like— I 
think there was only one publication that had started before 
Womyn's Press— at least, that's my memory of it— and I can't 
remember which one it was. Was it— Off Our Backs, or— Sinister  
Wisdom? I can't remember. But there was one that was kind  of 
before us, and then there was Womyn's Press, and we were holding 
our own in the space of women's history, and then— I was gone 
from Eugene when it folded, so it was sad, but it was sort of sad in 
a sort of muted, over-there kind of way. That was fun. Womyn's 
Press  was great.  
 And then there was Mother Kali's bookstore, which, of course, was 
a place that we gathered and— you know. When I came out as a 
lesbian, it became clear to me that the protocol was: cut your hair, 
get some army boots, get a flannel shirt, and learn about racism and 
anti-semitism and all that. Classism.  
 Classism was a great thing for me to learn about. Because I was 
raised in a Mormon environment, most of my peers being raised 
Mormon were middle-class or upper-class, and I had no— there 
was nobody explaining this to me. When we did the fundraisers for 
the temple trips, for example, those fundraisers were for me, and I 
was clueless that the other parents were giving the $100 or $200 or 
whatever hundred dollars it was so that we could— the Temple, at 
that point, was only in San Francisco. The Mormon Temple in Lake 
Oswego hadn't been built yet. You know, it was a trip. It was a 
huge trip. You all get in vans and whatever, and it costs money and 
gas and all that kind of stuff.  
 When I learned about classism, I was like, "Oh, that's what was 
going on! That's why people look at me so weird!" And then I had a 
lover who didn't like it that I chewed with my mouth open, and I'm  
like, "Oh! Class! That's class!" That's still something that I am 
grateful for the community sort of giving me, is this personalist 
political outlook where it matters. Class matters. Race— which is a 
social construct, so we don't— I'm trying to move away from 
calling it ‘race’, but— skin tone matters. If you're Jewish, it matters. 
If you're disabled, it matters. It matters. These things matter. That 
was just really— 
 I remember once, I ran into this woman who was wearing a "Dykes 
Against Anti-Semitism", and I was like, "Oh, cool." Then I went 
somewhere else and went, "What's anti-Semitism? Help me out, 
there's something I don't know." Of course, you go to Mother Kali's 
for that. Because you don't have a computer where you're like— 
you can't Google “anti-Semitism,”  you have to go to someone you 
trust, you know?  
Long:  What was  it like going into Mother Kali's? Can you describe that?  
Wilder:  It was sweet. I always tried to spend at least a little bit of money. I 
never had a lot, but— I really liked Izzie, who had a different name 
at the time, but— Alice? I can't remember her name before it was 
Izzie, but she was great. She was just so welcoming and wonderful. 
I still remember Lorraine from that time. They had some  issues 
trying to keep the bookstore running among themselves, but they 
were women that I looked up to as role models.  And I still do in 
some ways. I mean, Lorraine and I cross paths once in a while.  
She— I'm trying to figure out how to say this. I would say not 
everybody feels that way about her, but I feel like she's held a  
certain kind of space for this community for a  really long time, and 
I consider her someone who's been through something that I don't 
completely understand and I want to honor her and respect her and 
the way that she holds space. And she's an ex-Mormon. And her 
Mormonism is way deeper than mine, because she was of a 
Mormon clan that was like— my parents were converts, and it's 
different. When you're converts into the Mormon Church, it's way 
different than when your great, great, great-grandparent was 
Brigham Young's brother or whatever her scene is, so— so, it was 
just a good place to go, you know?  
Raiskin:  And for work, you were at Genesis?  
Wilder:  I was at Genesis for a while, and then what did I do next? I didn't 
stay there forever. I remember I was at Genesis when Sirca's son got 
killed. Sirca was a lesbian in our— Trudy. No. What was her name? 
What was her name? It was Sirca, and then there was a name that 
started with a ‘T’ that's not coming to me, but her son, at fourteen, 
thirteen  or fourteen, was out playing chicken on 99 and was hit, 
because he was out running in front of cars. She called me up— we 
were both working at Genesis, and she called me up and she said, 
"I need my carrot shift covered," and I was like, "Oh, okay."  "Okay, 
why?" And she's like, "My son got hit by a car and I need to go 
down to the hospital and identify his body, and I need my shift 
covered." And I said, "Wait, what?" And she's like, "Can you cover 
my shift?" and I'm like, "Someone's going to cover your shift, and 
I'm going to go down there with you." She was going to go alone.   
 I'm like, "I'm going  to go down there with you." I went and got her. 
I think I used one of the trucks. I didn't have a car at that time, and I 
guess neither did she. I called someone, the shift got covered, I 
went down there with her. That was really intense. But that's the 
kind of thing that we did for each other. It's like, "You're not doing 
that by yourself." And then we had a memorial for her about him 
where we released all these balloons into the environment, which 
we don't do anymore. All these things that we learn. So bad for the 
environment! But at the time, it was really beautiful. I'm glad I have 
one memory of releasing helium balloons into the air, you know?  
 After Genesis, what did I do? I might have moved from Genesis  to 
Nancy's Yogurt. I  worked on the fruit crew with gani and E, Ellen 
Greenlaw, who went by “E,” who was a healer in the community. 
gani was an amazing singer. Still is. She was a part of the 
community— I don't know if she was a part of Soromundi at that 
point, but she definitely is now. She's an amazing singer. gani and I 
started being lovers, and she got me onto the fruit crew, and all the 
people on the fruit crew were dykes, so that was fun for us. We 
were the fruit crew.  
Long:  What did it mean to be on the fruit crew?  
Wilder:  So, Nancy's Yogurt— I think they might still— it was the most 
handled product they had. It was one of the little things of yogurt, 
and then on the top, it was a little cup of fresh fruit: blueberries, 
blackberries, peaches— And, you  know, they paid people to 
blackberry pick, too. People would come in with their blackberries  
and get whatever cents a pound for it, so I probably did that once. 
It's really hard work, picking blackberries.  
 So anyway, I got on the fruit crew. When I first  started working at 
Nancy's, what I did was I cleaned the building, the bathrooms and 
stuff like that. Then I got promoted to the fruit crew. Then gani and 
I— gani introduced me to OWL Farm. It must have been gani who 
introduced me to OWL Farm. And gani and I were doing things 
like, we had a full moon circle that we did with other women. 
Lynne Lucas  was in that circle, Barb— No, not Barb. Barb was later 
in the circle. But Lynne  Lucas was in  it, Jennifer Horton, Laura 
Philips, Sally Sheklow was in that circle. There were thirteen  of us. 
Lynne  and I were trying to name all thirteen  the other day and we 
failed, but there were thirteen  of us. We did full moon circle, we 
did all kinds of things. We made masks, and— we rotated the 
leadership, so every month it was  a different person leading it. We 
did that, and that was great.  
Long:  Was this down at OWL Farm?  
Wilder:  Nope, this was all still in Eugene.  
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Wilder:  And gani took me down to OWL Farm. She'd lived at OWL for a 
while, and she took me down there. Then I started going down 
there for the ceremonies that they had down there, solstice and— 
mostly Summer Solstice. But there were other things going on 
down there, because Fly Away Home— which, as the crow flies, is  
just over the ridge from OWL Farm— you can actually walk from 
OWL Farm over the ridge to Myrtle Creek Road. It's about a thirty-
minute walk, and then you're about four miles out to Fly Away 
Home. Or you can drive from OWL Farm to the freeway, up to 
Myrtle Creek, and then down Myrtle Creek Road to Fly Away 
Home, and it's about an hour drive. So if someone's willing to pick 
you up here, it actually takes about the same amount of time, but 
more than half of it is walking. We learned that route. I don't know 
who figured that out, but we learned that, and when we lived at 
OWL Farm, we used to go to Fly Away Home occasionally that 
way.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe OWL Farm and Fly Away for people who don't 
know?  
Wilder:  Yeah. So OWL Farm, Oregon Women's Land, owned by Oregon 
Women's Land Trust, and OWL Farm wasn't so much about owls 
as it was about women, although there are owls at OWL Farm.  
When I first went to OWL Farm, it was just this— I mean, if 
walking into a bar and being with all these lesbians is an amazing 
experience, try walking onto a piece  of land with all these women 
who are running around without their shirts off, and doing 
whatever we do, and jumping over fires, and creating all these 
rituals. It's like we read a little something in a book and then we 
make it our own. It was really powerful for me. It was so—  
 I remember the first time I tried to figure out what witchcraft was 
about was the first time a library had ever failed me. Because all  
growing up, if I wanted to know something, I would go to the 
library, I'd figure out where it was, I'd go pull out the book, and I 
could learn about dragonflies or dragons or anything! Anything! 
Fair. Anything. But when I tried to learn about witchcraft, I'd go to 
the library and I'm like, "What? This isn't what I'm looking for at 
all!" It was this library. And I'm pulling out all this stuff about 
witchcraft, and I'm like, "Whatever I'm looking for, this is not it."  
 But when I got to OWL Farm, I was like, "This is it!" It was just— it 
was so amazing! We went down, I don't know, it must have been 
pretty regularly for the— mostly for the events. We'd go down for 
the events. I don't remember ever really going down there just to 
hang out.  And Ní Aódagaín  was living there with her daughter, 
and she was holding that space the way Betsy held Womyn's Press. I 
mean— 
Long:  At OWL— 
Wilder:  At OWL Farm.  
Long:  Yeah.  
Wilder:  Women were coming and going, they were coming and going, and 
especially in the summer, they'd come. There would be up to 
seventy-five, 100 women on the land. It was a very strong time. 
This was— OWL Farm became a thing in the '70s— '76, I believe— 
and I know some about that time, but I'm not the best person to talk 
about it, because I wasn't there. And then it was a little quiet for 
just a little while, and then Ní Aódagaín  moved there, and she  was  
kind of the space holder for OWL Farm. She lived there all seasons 
with her daughter. Her daughter lived there from two to thirteen, I 
think. At thirteen, they decided she needed more—  
Long:  School?  
Wilder:  Yeah, she wanted to be a— 
Long:  Dance?  
Wilder: She wanted to ballet. She needed more ballet is what she needed. 
Schooling, they could handle, but the ballet part was pretty tough.  
Long:  And my understanding is that if women wanted to go to OWL 
Farm, they could live there in exchange for contributing— 
Wilder:  Labor.  
Long:  Labor.  
Wilder:  Yep. They could. Yep, they could. Before I moved to OWL, Ní 
Aódagaín  and I held the 1988 We'Moon calendar together. We 
edited that calendar together. We were really quite close.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe the calendar? 
Wilder:  The We’Moon calendar— I think the first year may have even just 
been a few years before 1988. It started at We'Moon, which is a land 
east of Portland, near Estacada. Musawa  was kind of the queen of 
that whole thing. I don't know if she'd use the word ‘queen’, but 
I'm going to. And she obviously had help. There's no women's land  
anywhere that only one person does it. It's not like that. But 
Musawa  was kind of looking for land, and she had help from 
Zarod  and other people who helped her figure all that out.  
 I don't really know how the We'Moon was actually born, but once 
it started, there were a bunch of us that felt motivated to keep it 
going. It used to be that you'd get the calendar together just a few 
months before January, so in 1987— somewhere  in 1987— it’s not 
like that anymore. They do it way forward now. Or backward. 
Before it comes out is even more this way.  
 Ní Aódagaín  and Musawa— Musawa and I met, and Musawa 
basically said, "We need editors for the '88 calendar," and Ní 
Aódagaín  and I took it on. It was a little bit like the Womyn's Press  
thing. We were laying little pieces of paper onto something and 
gluing it, I think. And I made these little, again, these little spiraly 
doo-daddy things, and we got the template of the— it has all the 
moon and stars, and all the— you know, those— I'm not an 
astrologer. All the astrology stuff, like when the moon goes into 
different signs, and when it's squaring Pluto or whatever. I guess 
the moon doesn't square Pluto, I guess it's another planet, but 
whatever, all that astrology stuff, which I obviously incompletely 
understand. And then each day, you know—  
 The calendar still is laid out so that each week— You could see the 
whole week— and then the full moon, the dark moon, the solstices, 
the equinoxes, all the high holy days are in there, and then each of 
those high holy days has a little thing about what it is and, you  
know. So we solicited from women all over the planet who wanted 
to contribute to this calendar. Now it's even more famous and more 
beautiful. Our calendar had a green cover, and then it was black 
and white on the inside. For along time, it was black and white. 
Now it's really beautiful, very colorful and— 
 Yeah, so that was an adventure, doing that. I didn't want to do it 
the next year. And then it got way more professional, and I kept on 
making submissions, and they kept on rejecting me, and I was like, 
"You guys have left me in the dust." But I did submit this year, so 
we'll see.  
 I've participated in the ritual that they do where they try to figure 
out what to put in the calendar. There are boxes and boxes and 
boxes of submissions. Women sit around and they get a folder, and 
they look through the folder, and then on the back, they write, "I 
love it," "It's okay," "I don't like it," "I hate it." There's little check 
marks. You sit there and you do that for an hour or two, and then 
they give you a calendar. But it takes a village to figure out what 
goes in, because if just the core group of We'Moon was trying to do 
that, it would be impossible. The submissions are just so 
overwhelming. I don't even know how they look at it all.  
 That was fun. It's a good reference, the We'Moon calendar. A lot of 
women just— you’d  be surprised how many people know about 
the We'Moon, who aren't lesbians or whatever. Like at work the 
other day, I said to a colleague, "I have some submissions for the 
We'Moon calendar," and she's like,  “Ah! The We'Moon! I love that  
calendar!" I'm like, "How do you know about that calendar?" So it's 
pretty out there. It's pretty famous now, so that's cool. And it's so 
beautiful, so woman-focused.  
 Yeah, so Ní Aódagaín  and I— Okay, so gani and I took on a foster 
child, totally outside of the system. There was a lesbian in our 
community who had a child, and she couldn't do it.  She just 
couldn't— she didn't have appropriate housing, she was trying to 
work, she was trying to— she just couldn't do it. The child had 
been living with the mother's mother and male partner in a trailer 
with far too many small dogs, and had been being neglected and 
abused by her grandparents. And then she came to live with her 
mother, and her mother just didn't have it. She didn't have 
appropriate housing or enough time to take care of her child.  
 I don't even know how we met her. I have no idea how that  
connection happened, but she came to live with us, and she was 
giving us— I don't know, $100 a month or something to take care of 
this child.  
Raiskin:  How old was the child?  
Wilder:  She was— she lived with us for a year, so I'm going to say she was 
nine when she moved in with us, so ten when she went back to 
her— maybe closer to eleven. Maybe it was a couple of years.  
 So, she moved in with us, and we had— 
Long:  Is this when you were down at OWL Farm?   
Wilder:  We were still in Eugene.  
Long:  Oh, okay.  
Wilder: gani and I were living out River Road on McClure Lane. The garage 
had a little room off the back of it, so I gave her my room and I 
moved into that room, so she had her own bedroom. She was a 
very interesting child. She was— like one time, we left her alone for 
a little while, and she couldn't figure out how to get the peanut 
butter jar open, so she opened it with a can opener, like the sharp-y 
point of the can opener? She knew how to survive, you know. 
Yeah, she was very interesting, and very artistic. Lots of art. Lots 
and lots of art.  
 We took her to OWL Farm, and she totally fell in love with OWL 
Farm. She said, "We have to move here," and Ghani and I were like, 
"It's not that easy. It's very complicated to move to OWL Farm." She 
said, "No, no, we have to move here." She was like, "We have to 
move here. We have to move here. We have to move here." For 
some reason— who knows even what all the strands were— Ghani 
and I let her talk us into this adventure, to move to OWL Farm.  
 We moved to OWL Farm. We made arrangements with our jobs, 
we let our house go, all this stuff, we moved to OWL Farm. Ghani 
and I lived in two separate houses. She lived on the quiet house on 
the hill, and I lived in a trailer down closer to the parking lot, which 
exists no longer— The parking lot does, the trailer doesn't— and 
we shared Amanda being with us alternate nights. Then I fell in  
love with someone else, and gani and I broke up, and— I don't 
even know what the order of events are, but Amanda decided she 
didn't like living in the woods, she wanted to move back to Eugene. 
We're like, "Honey, it's not that easy. We can't just, like, ‘Okay, 
we're not living here now. We're going to go back to Eugene.’ We 
don't have our house, we don't— It's not that easy." And we had 
made arrangements with our jobs. It was just—  
 Then she was unhappy, and then gani and I were having— well, 
maybe she was unhappy, and so she moved in with her mom, and 
her mom was living in Springfield, and she took her little self over 
to South Eugene where you could self-enroll, and enrolled herself 
into Springfield. I mean, at this point, she had purple hair. Way 
before her time. She was like this Goth  kid. She did not fit in with 
normal kids, and she's like, "I am not going to Springfield High 
School." So, she went over and enrolled herself into South Eugene 
High School, and when they realized that she didn't live in the 
district, they told her that they didn't know if she could stay. Then 
they were like, "Well, if you get good grades, you can stay." She 
was motivated to get good grades, so she graduated from South 
Eugene High School, which probably was one of her many, many, 
many saving graces. She still lived with her mom, but she went to 
South Eugene High School.  
 So they figured it out, and I felt bad that by that point, I couldn't 
take her back. She begged to come back to me, and I was like, "I 
can't. I don't— " gani and I were breaking up. I couldn't live with  
her full-time in a trailer that was barely the size of this table. I was 
like, I couldn't, so she kind of went off on her own way. But we 
took care of her for a year.  
 But she loved OWL Farm, and it was just fun to see her blossom, 
and the other girls that would come to OWL Farm, and just be in 
that space and just be loved so much by us. They were all girls 
that— we didn't have boys come to OWL Farm. So that was really 
great. That's why we moved to OWL Farm. And then, I lived at 
OWL Farm for eighteen  months. gani and I were ostensibly co-
parenting Ní Aódagaín's child, Felice Ana, and then there was a—  
 We were all sexual abuse survivors except for one of us, who had 
other issues, and we were trying to do everything by consensus, 
and we were trying to be fair to each other, and we're trying to 
share and be good, and all the meetings were by consensus. We 
had long conversations about toilet paper. I freaking started buying 
my own toilet paper so I could just be like, "I don't use the 
collective toilet paper." I was stealing my toilet paper from Nancy's, 
actually, because I was still working there. I was like, "I can't— No," 
because it was all this angst, and we didn't know how— we didn't 
have the skills at that point to figure out what was the underlying 
thing, so we'd have these long, incredibly long arguments about 
things like toilet paper. It was so frustrating. The meetings were 
difficult.  
 I can't even remember all the things, but Ní Aódagaín  and I 
increasingly were having difficulty communicating with each  
other. gani moved to Rainbow's End. She couldn't handle it that I 
was not being lovers with her anymore, and I started being lovers 
with robin, and that was more than she could handle. So gani 
moved to Rainbow's End, robin  moved into the cabin that gani had 
been living in— this is the kind of stuff we did back then. We just— 
I mean, back in the day, in the early '70s, they actually prescribed 
people changing cabins every so often, and bedmates, for a little 
while. That didn't work, either.  
Raiskin:  Prescribed how?  
Wilder:  I'm not sure, because I wasn't there, but like, you know, "We're all 
going to be non-monogamous here, so it's your night to sleep with 
her, and it's your night to sleep with her, and it's— you can't keep 
sleeping in that house all the time. You've got to now move to this 
house." Pelican couldn't handle it. She's the one who built the tree 
house. She's like, "You all are crazy. I can't handle this. I'm going to 
spend my energy hauling all this wood two miles up the path 
through the poison oak to build a tree house," and she did, because 
she was like, "I can't stand downtown OWL." And there  was also, I 
think there was someone who was abusing alcohol, which is— you 
know, the land trust agreements started to come into play at that 
point, and one of them was no alcohol on the land, and— because it 
was just too much. You couldn't say, "You can't  be an alcoholic." 
Alcoholics don't always know they're alcoholics. So, no alcohol on 
the land.   
 I remember Marty and I once, we got this six-pack of beer, and we 
bought it, and we didn't bring it on to OWL proper, we went up the 
logging road— which was kind of one of the borders of OWL— 
and we went way up into the old-growth trees with our six-pack of 
beer and [laughs ] drank this six-pack of beer together. It was really 
fun. It was really fun. But we didn't drink it on OWL Farm. I don't 
know if that was bending the rules or not. We didn't talk about it 
much. But it was really fun.  
 So, anyway, let's see, what else— Ní Aódagaín  and I had a  horrible 
fallout, Madrone  tried to mediate, and my narrative is that the 
mediation did not go well. I felt shut down by Madrone, which did 
not work for me. Ní Aódagaín  — this is my narrative. Ní Aódagaín  
and I— I tried to talk to Ní Aódagaín  about this within the last 
couple years, and she wasn't game, so this is kind of sensitive 
material, but I'm just going to— Ní Aódagaín, if you're watching 
this, I do love you. I'm doing my best.  
 So, my narrative is that at that time, Ní Aódagaín  likened me to a 
perpetrator in my relationship with Felice  Ana, and forbade me to 
make any overture to Felice  Ana whatsoever. If Felice  Ana said hi 
to me, I could say hi back, but I was not to say hi to her, I was not to 
initiate any contact with her, I was not to have her at my space, of 
course, because I was doing things that were trying to entice her 
into my sphere like a perpetrator would do. And I think it had 
something to do with gifts. I was not to give her any gifts. It was 
a— there was supposed to be like this firewall between me and  
Felice Ana, who had been, ostensibly, a child that I was co-
parenting for. We'd had this scene that was like she was like my 
sister, Ní Aódagaín  was my sister, and we were like this, and now 
this thing happened where she's telling me I can't even talk to this 
child. And I said, "I can't live like that."  
 Instead of saying— which is what I would do now— of course, I 
wouldn't live like that now, but— I would say, "Well, I'm not 
comfortable with honoring that boundary. We have to figure out 
some other way of helping you feel safe." But instead, I said, "I'm 
not going to do that. I'm moving to Cabbage Lane. I'm leaving." 
Because we were young then, and we could go, "Fine, I'm leaving!" 
So, I did. I left.  
 Poor robin, robin  was like, "Could we talk before you just make a 
decision like that?" I said, "Sure, but I am leaving," and she's like, "I 
would have liked to have been part of the process," and I'm like, 
"Okay, let's pretend that decision hasn't been made yet. Hey, robin, 
I can't live like this. I'm thinking about moving to Cabbage Lane. 
What do you think?" We did this whole thing, and underneath, I'm 
like, "I'm leaving." Poor robin. I was so flamboyant, and my 
personality still is kind of startling to a lot of people, but back then, 
it was way worse!  
 Anyway, I left! I moved to Cabbage Lane. Cabbage Lane at the time 
was inhabited originally— again, this is what  I've heard, and I may 
not be accurate— by men and women that were together, and then 
they split on sexuality lines, and the women stayed down at  
Cabbage and were lesbians, and the men went up to Lilac Ridge 
and were gay men together. That's what I've heard. I don't know if 
that's true, because I wasn't there, but Zarod would know.  
 Cabbage Lane was inhabited by these straight people who became 
gay, and women lived down here, and the men lived up here, and 
then the men went to San Francisco and the women went all the 
different places they went. Zarod lives in Portland now with her 
partner, Gail. And there were different women in and out of 
Cabbage Lane, of course. Pelican lived there for a while, a woman 
named Kaya lived there for a while. It was kind of a— 
 And boys could be there. Kaya? Is that her name? She had a boy, 
and so boys could be there up to age— something. I don't know, 
maybe it was eight, maybe it was twelve, I don't know. But that 
was really great for women who had boy children, because at 
OWL— when  I lived at OWL, boys were welcome to age six, but I 
never saw any boys  at OWL. Or maybe only once? Cabbage kind of 
became the place where children were welcome, and particularly 
where women who had boys were a little bit more welcome. They 
did childcare collectives and all that kind of stuff.  
 But when I moved to OWL Farm  [Cabbage Lane], there was one 
woman kind of squatting there— which we allowed because she 
was female, but she wasn't a part of our community. She wasn't 
lesbian or anything. Her name was Magic. She had a dog. She was 
camping, long-term camping, where Trillium  had been. Trillium 
had burned to the ground. You came up on this land, and then  
Trillium was on the right, and the main house was on the left, and 
you could drive up a little further if you had a good enough car. 
Then, if you walked down this little path, there was a cabin called 
Star, and then if you went way back up into the woods— several 
miles back up into the woods— well, at least two— there's a little 
tiny cabin called Cedar Cabin.  
 We re-roofed Cedar. Marty was still female at that time, and Marty 
hauled all that roofing up on her shoulders. It was incredible to 
watch the strength of just— the mind boggled about how to get all 
that lumber up there to build a little cabin. We were just so strong, 
and just like, "Yeah, I'll take that stack of two-by-fours up the hill." 
When I got there, I was a little bit over thirty, and I wasn't hauling 
no roofing up that— no. I was doing good to get two gallons of 
water up there, you know?  
 Water was an issue at Cabbage. It had a seasonal spring, which 
meant no water in the summer, so all our water in the summer was 
hauled up to Cabbage. robin  and I created a Cabbage Lane 
newsletter and kind of got Cabbage back on the map of the 
southern Oregon lesbian community, land dyke community, and 
then did some fundraising, did some, "Hey, Cabbage Lane, let's 
buy it back from the boys," kind of thing. And we did. Not me 
"we", but we— after  I left Cabbage, other women kind of picked up 
the baton, and the guys sold it to us for something super cheap. It 
was worth more than what we paid for it. We got the boys off the  
deed, and now Cabbage is struggling in other ways, but we've held 
it all these years, so— 
 I lived at Cabbage Lane for about eighteen  months, and I was still a 
part of the community, because back then, in the narrative I have, 
you're a lesbian, you're in the lesbian community. If you have a 
fallout with someone, you break up with someone, you have a 
fallout, you still go to the events. I mean, maybe you don't once or 
twice, maybe, "I just can't handle it today," but it's still your 
community. You don't divorce your community. You can't. So you 
go to the event, and you're like, "Ugh, she's over there. Oh my god, 
I can't believe she's holding so-and-so's hand! Ah!" or whatever, but 
you go! You go!  
 The army of ex-lovers cannot fail was really our thing, and we 
maybe didn't sit right— I mean, it took gani and I years and years 
and years to be able to say, "Okay, I made some mistakes." "Yeah, I 
made some mistakes, too." "Yeah, I wish I could've been friends 
with you all those years." "Yeah, okay, but here we are now." So 
now when gani  walks into a room, I'm not like, "Oh, there's gani! 
What do I do?" I mean, we're not friends yet. I'm hoping someday 
we will be. But it was rough, you know? You go anyway, and you 
just— whoever  shows up is part of the community  and you do it 
anyway.  
 They're still like that. You read The Grapevine, which is an email list 
that goes out to the southern Oregon lesbian community, and 
they're like, "Thanksgiving at Jemma and Dana's!" Well, if you get  
The Grapevine, you get to go! Concerts, Whispering Oaks camp-out. 
Even if someone's really obnoxious or has mental health issues or 
whatever, you can ask them not to bring their  alcohol, but they can 
come! They can come. Everyone can come. Everyone's welcome. 
That's really cool, and is not the kind of space that I feel like I can 
hold. I certainly can't hold it by myself. When I have events at my 
house, I don't put it on the email list. I'm like, "No. There are people 
out there that I don't want coming to my house." But Fly Away 
Home is not like that, and Whispering Oaks is not like that, and 
Jemma and Dana's is not like that, and OWL was certainly not like 
that. If you could walk  up the road, you could be there. You could 
be there. So that's just different. Cabbage Lane was like that, too. 
That's just different.  
 And it's different even now for OWL, because there's this whole 
process about how to get there and be a visitor, because it's— 
there's not the container that there once was. I mean, it used to be 
you'd walk up the road, and yeah, you might walk up the road and 
have this really obnoxious person or whatever, but you could kind 
of tag-team dealing with that person, or five of  you could sit down 
with that person and be like, "Okay, we need to talk about this," but 
right now at OWL Farm, there's one person, and her skills aren't 
that great for managing that kind of stuff.  
 There's one woman that lived at OWL Farm— I don't know what 
happened to her. Her name was Luna, and she used to be a 
professor, a university professor somewhere. She lived in Hawaii  
for a while. She was the trippiest woman, and OWL Farm held her 
in a way that nowhere else could have. She refused to use anything  
metal, because that was of men. She was totally anti-patriarchy, all 
the way through her being, so she didn't even use a metal pot. Or 
maybe she only had one pot. I don't know. She didn't want to use 
anything that was man-made. She made these little teeny  tiny fires 
to cook her food, and her life's work was working on the mother 
tongue. She said "ooh", "ah", and "ee" were of the mother tongue, 
and she had this whole thing about what that all meant. She had 
pages and pages of this thing that she was writing  about, the 
mother tongue.  
 She was a little crazy, I think, but she was also brilliant in her— I 
think she had some mental health issues, but she also had this 
really deep, incredible intelligence, and it was always hard for us to 
figure out what was coming out when. She was difficult.  
Long:  Do you know what happened to her?  
Wilder:  I don't. Ní Aódagaín  might? I don't know. She was very interesting. 
I remember once she said to me, "Once, I was in Hawaii, and I had 
ten cents, and I was hungry. What would you buy if you had ten 
cents and you were hungry?" I was like, "I have no idea. I've never 
been hungry in my life." I mean, I had issues. My parents were 
working-class. There were things that I didn't get, but not food. I 
said, "I don't know." She said, "I bought peanuts." I was like, "That 
sounds like a good choice." She was very interesting. Yeah.   
Long:  Can you describe what a circle was? And the purpose of the circles? 
On the lesbian lands.  
Wilder:  Yeah, so the ritual circles?  
Long:  Ritual circles.  
Wilder: Okay, so the ritual circles were conducted almost always in this 
way. We usually did them at dark moon, new moon, or on a high 
holy day, which is solstice, equinox, and then there's the cross-
quarter days, which is Samhain— which is Halloween— 
Candlemas,  Lammas, and— another one. Beltane. Of course! 
Beltane! That was one of our favorites! We were pretty dedicated to 
all that. I mean, I'm not sure we celebrated every cross-quarter 
days, but definitely Samhain was held at Fly Away Home every 
year, and Beltane, because there was all these things to do for 
Beltane. Oh my gosh.  
 So, for most of the circles, we would call the directions— somebody 
would figure out what was east, west— We'd start with the east, 
call in the south, then the west, then the north, and  then various 
things could happen after that. Sometimes people would call 
above, below the center. Sometimes people would call in goddesses 
or whatever. But the directions would be called this way; east— 
Long:  And people would be in a circle holding hands?  
Wilder:  Sometimes we held hands, sometimes we were sitting, sometimes 
we were standing. I mean, it just varied. So then, depending on the  
circle— depending on if somebody was leading it, or if it was just a 
talking circle where each woman would get her turn. That's the 
way they do it at Fly Away Home. They've been doing Fly Away 
Home that way for as long as I can remember. I don't reckon they'll 
change it. And I don't think they call in directions, at least not 
always.  
 At Fly Away Home, the road woman starts the circle, and the rattle 
is passed, and then the road woman holds the circle and finds out if 
it needs to be passed again, and then the rattle just keeps getting 
passed until no one has anything to say.  
Raiskin:  What's a road woman?  
Wilder:  She's the  one who starts the circle. She opens the circle. Usually the 
road woman would take the rattle, and then say— sing. Well, at Fly 
Away Home, it's all singing. [Singing] You sing what you want to 
express, in any kind of singing tone you want, because singing  
opens your heart, and that acts— And you can sing a song. You 
know, [singing] "Women are we; sacred are we; we are the— " You 
can sing a song that everyone knows and they can sing with you, 
but whatever you're expressing to yourself, you sing. That's the Fly 
Away Home model.  
 And then the circle, it goes around as many times, and then 
sometimes it's like we get tired— especially when we get older— 
and so the road woman is holding the rattle, and she's looking 
around the circle at people who talk a lot, like Mara, like, "Do you  
really need to say something?" And then it goes around and Mara 
gets the rattle, and we all go like this to her  [shaking hand], and 
then she says something, or she doesn't, or she has a little 
something. When the rattle goes around and no one says anything, 
then the road woman closes the circle.  
Long:  Road, R-O-A-D? 
Wilder:  Yeah.  
Long:  Okay.  
Wilder:  Yeah. Yeah, like the road. Yeah.  
Long:  Okay.  
Wilder:  And then it depends. If it's Halloween, Samhain, then we talk about 
the veil being the thinnest right now, and we sing about our 
ancestors, and we talk about the people who have died in the last 
year, and we talk about grief, and— I mean, you don't have to. You 
can say whatever you want, but when we're doing Samhain, those 
are the kinds of things that come up. When you're doing Summer 
solstice, you talk about balance— Not solstice, equinox, the Fall 
equinox or the Spring equinox— about balance, because the night 
and the day are the same, and how am I bringing balance into my 
life, or how have I not been balanced, or— You know, they're 
themed. And Beltane is— Fly Away doesn't hold Beltane, they hold 
Solstice, Equinoxes, and Samhain.   
 For Beltane, you build a fire and you jump over the fire, and you're 
inviting something into your life. Sexuality is fine, but it doesn't 
have to be sex, it can be anything. We always jump the fire on 
Beltane. That's what we did.  
 At OWL Farm, the rattle would go around, but there would also be 
things that we would hold, so if someone was leading the circle, we 
would say, "Now we're all going to sing this song, or do this thing, 
or each woman's going to jump over the fire." A lot of the circles, 
women would have this kind of heuristic where you open the 
circle, you find something to do that's grounding and connecting 
with everybody there, then you find a way to bring the energy 
up— it might even just be like starting with a really low tone and 
going “ooooooh,” and if you have thirty  women doing that, you 
can hold it, because you can take a breath and then make more 
noise, and take a breath. And then the energy comes down, and 
everyone touches the ground, and you bring the energy back to the 
earth. That was kind of a wave  of doing a ritual. That was one way 
to do it. It just kind of depended on who was leading it.  
 But generally speaking, the directions were called in, there was a 
way to open the circle, and then there was a way to close the circle. 
And frequently women would say, "If you need to leave the circle, 
please let us know," or, "Make sure you open and close," or, "Make 
sure you go from here," or, "Make sure you don't," whatever, 
whatever. There were all these rules. And at Fly Away Home, they 
do say that if you start in the circle, don't just leave. You leave  
when the rattle comes all the way back to the road woman. Then 
you can say, "I can't do this anymore."  
 We're all getting older. When we were all younger, we would— I 
remember we did this circle once at Fly Away Home— I will never 
forget this. It was so intense. It must have been Summer Solstice, 
and we did that circle for— we were there for hours. Hours and 
hours and hours. And there was this one thing that happened to 
me where I was totally channeling the women who used to walk 
the ley lines on the earth. One of the things that is said out there in 
our culture is that the earth is a living being, and she has ley lines, 
just like we have energy lines in our body. And there were women 
who would walk the ley lines to help that connection between the 
people and the earth. And I had this memory of being one of these 
women who would walk the ley lines, and the men came, and they 
cut open the bottoms of our feet. So, we couldn't walk our ley lines 
anymore, and they were severing us from our sacred work, you 
know?  
 I had this memory, and I was just so— it was so visceral, you 
know? And Ní Aódagaín  was there, and she was holding my feet, 
and I was telling her how they were cutting my feet, and we were 
wailing. We were having this cathartic, healing, wailing, intense 
channeling. I don't even know, but I'll tell you, it was real. It felt 
really real, and still does, you know? And we would just be like, 
"Okay, however imperfectly, we're bringing this back, our ways of  
holding the earth and being connected to the earth. We're bringing 
it back with these rituals that we do."  
 We used to do stuff like that. It doesn't seem to be that dramatic 
anymore. We're all in our— I'm one of the youngest. I'll be fifty-
seven  in September, and I go down to Fly Away Home and I'm 
frequently one of the youngest women there. And these women 
who are approaching their eighties, they're not going to be up until 
2:00 in the morning doing rituals anymore. It's like, "I need to go to 
bed." The energy level has dropped a little bit.  
Long:  Was there a movement back and forth among the women to go 
from the southern Oregon lesbian lands up to Eugene and then 
back again? Do you have any sense of that?  
Wilder:  Yeah, I think so, and from San Francisco up to OWL and the lands. 
Mm-hmm (affirmative). Yep. There were women coming up— 
That's how I met Marty. Marty came up from— Marty was living in 
L.A., and Marty and Green— so, Green came to Dyke Art Camp, 
and that's how they found the Southern Oregon lesbian 
community. That was another draw, Dyke Art Camp at Rootworks.  
 Marty and Green came up for Dyke Art Camp. Well, Green did. I 
don't know that Marty went to Dyke Art Camp, but maybe she did. 
He's a he now, but I'm just going to say “she” for the story, 
because— too much. It's too much to call Marty “he.” He went to 
OWL Farm, he birthed a baby. I'm just going to say “she” for the—  
because in that time frame, she was a she. Although he's very he 
right now. He's the father of my children, et cetera, but—  
 Okay, so Marty and Green came up, and there were other women 
who came up, and I don't know if they were connected. No, the Bay 
Area women were Crow, Atava.  There were a bunch of Bay Area 
women who came up, too. So there was this whole influx of 
women, young women— some of these women were twenty, 
twenty-one— young women coming up and occupying space at 
OWL  Farm. For the summer, like I mentioned, the summers were 
very— I mean, you can camp in the summer. In the winter, it starts 
to rain and it's cold and it's dark and it's difficult to live at OWL 
Farm in the winter, and there's not that much housing. I mean, 
women did put up yurts and stuff, and figure it out, but it was— 
you couldn't house seventy-five women at OWL Farm in the 
winter. We didn't have the infrastructure for it.  
 But in the summer, you pitch a tent. There's plenty of places. So lots 
of women would come in the summer— Summer Solstices would 
be very popular— lots of activity, and then women would flow 
back into the cities, and then in the summers, it was kind of like 
that. Eugene, San Francisco. Not so much L.A., although we got 
Marty and Green from L.A. Dyke Art Camp, I don't know. I don't 
know where they advertised it, but Green found us that way.  
Long:  Can you briefly describe Dyke Art Camp?  
Wilder:  I never went.   
Long:  Okay.  
Wilder:  So I know that it was cool and that people did it and that Jean 
Mountaingrove and Tee Corinne  were part of it, and that it was 
very, very well loved by many, many women, but I never went.  
Long:  Okay. So when did you come back to Eugene, then?  
Wilder:  Just to back up a little bit, I left Cabbage Lane in '92 because I was 
unhappy with how many women of color we didn't have in our 
community. I just felt like Eugene was too white. I couldn't do the 
anti-racism work that I really wanted to do. It was too, we were too 
not multi-diverse. So I left! Because that's what I was doing in those 
days. "I need to leave and do my work elsewhere!" So I left, and 
then a bunch of different things happened. I went to Santa Fe and 
house sat for a while, and then I went to New Mexico, where there 
was a small collective of women that I was connected to through 
robin.  
 robin  met these women at the peace camp where the dykes were 
holding space in New York around the ammunitions. All that anti-
nuke— there  was a whole other thing that people could study 
about the dykes that held space in New York and in Greenham 
around the anti-nuke movement. robin  lived in New York, and 
that's where she met Hershey and Loba  and all these gals, and they 
were dykes in peace camp. They came to San Francisco. robin  was 
one of those San Francisco dykes that came up to OWL and that's 
how I met her.   
 When I left Cabbage Lane and wanted to live with women of color, 
robin  and I decided to go move in with Hershey and Loba, or at 
least be in proximity, because they were trying to create land with 
women of color. And they were kind of involved with the Women's 
Sundance  and other things, so they had some— and Loba was 
Columbian, even though she could pass as white, so she identified 
as a woman of color who was also white, and so she identified as 
mixed race that way.  
 We lived in Arizona in a wash. I lived in a tent in a wash, because it 
was summer and you can live in a wash in the summer.  
Long:  What's a wash?  
Wilder:  It's a place where the water comes through in the winter, so in 
those dry, dry areas when it rain-rain-rain-rain-rain-rain-rains, 
there's this whole whoosh!— these— 
Long:  A wash of water.  
Wilder:  Yeah. It's not even a seasonal stream, it's just a whoosh!  because it 
rains, and then the water just comes screaming through these areas. 
They even have streets in Tucson that are closed when it's raining, 
and open in the rest of the year, because the water needs to go 
somewhere.  
 We tried that, and I had a small inheritance. It was not very big. My 
grandfather had lived through the depression, and he had given us 
all— all four kids; I'm the oldest of four— $50,000, which, in the  
day, that seemed like a lot of money. It seemed like a lot of money 
to me. I was going to try to invest in this women of color 
adventure, and I finally just gave them a bunch of money and 
walked away from it. It just was so dysfunctional, and I couldn't— 
we just weren't getting anywhere. It was really awful. It was really 
difficult.  
 Plus, I was displaced. I'm now living in the desert. I'm from the 
Pacific Northwest. I'm kind of part frog. I really  like it cool and 
rainy, and I'm living in this environment that's just so alien and 
bright and difficult. Every day it's difficult for me. The only time I 
can be outside is early morning and late afternoon, and then I'm 
trapped in the house. It was just a  very difficult environment for 
me physically.  
 And then I was drawn away from that by a job. Marty had a old 
friend from way back in college who had a boyfriend who was a set 
carpenter, and he had taught Marty a bunch of carpentry, and Bob 
wanted us on this set crew for this movie called Stargate. We got 
called because we lived in Arizona and they didn't have to pay us 
per diem to work on the movie crew. We moved to Yuma, Arizona 
and worked on this movie crew six days a week, ten hours a day as 
set carpenters, which made Bob happy because Bob liked to have a 
crew that would do what he told them to do, and he knew if he 
worked with women, that it would work. Working with men was 
difficult for him.   
 He got Marty and I hired onto this set crew, and then we worked 
there for a while, and Stargate  was filmed in Yuma and also Los 
Angeles. Marty and I lived in Yuma, and then he made this thing 
called a flat machine. Maybe this isn't so interesting because it's 
carpentry stuff? Do you care about this?  Okay. He made this thing 
called a flat machine, where the staplers were on these big bars. 
Marty would stand at one end, I'd stand at the other, and you'd go 
boom, boom, boom, boom. We could make an eight-by-eight flat in 
four minutes. And pretty much four minutes, four minutes— I 
mean, you had to refill the staplers once in a while, and stuff like 
that. A  person who's a really good set carpenter can make a flat in 
four minutes, but they generally can't make a flat, make a flat, make 
a flat. You slow down. It's hard to make— you have to be on it to 
make a flat in four minutes.  
Long:  And what's the flat for?  
Wilder:  They're movie walls. They're walls, so you can put them up— 
they’re  for theater and movies. They're really thin walls that will 
fall over if they're not set up right, but they look like real walls. If 
you watch Bruce Lee movies, every once in a while someone will 
get thrown up against a wall, and the wall will go like this. It's 
because it's a flat, not a wall.  
 We were the flat machine queens, Marty and I were, and we moved 
to Long Beach with the flat machine because not just anybody 
could run the flat machine. It had to be someone who knew how to 
take care of the machine. That made Bob really happy. I made more  
money than I've ever seen in my entire life. And now I'm in Long 
Beach, and I'm integrating into the lesbian community somewhat in 
Long Beach, and Long Beach— 
 Long Beach is tricky, because all of L.A., the lesbians are in these 
tiny little pockets, and anything that you do with other lesbians, 
you have to  drive to get there. The way Berkeley does community 
and the way Eugene does community and the way Portland does 
community, there's a community that you can find. There might be 
sub-communities, but there's a lesbian community in all those 
places. I didn't  find that to be true in L.A. There were dykes in 
Long Beach and there were dykes over here and there were dykes 
doing karate and there were lesbians doing these different things, 
but there wasn't a community where you're like, "Oh yeah, I saw 
you at the last— " It wasn't like that at all.  
 We lived in L.A. for a while with the flat machine. That job ended. 
Marty started being a set carpenter.  
Long:  And what year was that?  
Wilder:  That's a good question. Ninety-two? No, that can't be right, because 
I left Cabbage Lane in '92. Must have been more like '94. Something 
like '94. Because Marty and I wound up moving to Berkeley in '96, 
and then we came up to Eugene in '96 to have our primarriage. We 
had a commitment ceremony that was a primarriage, because we 
were  non-monogamous, so it wasn't a marriage. And then we 
stayed in Berkeley for eight years because— well, first my niece  
came to live with me, and then we decided to have a couple kids, 
so we just kind of got stuck there for a while. And then we moved 
back up to Eugene with the kids in 2004. Yeah.  
 We were doing that. We joined Karate Woman, which was a 
lesbian-owned martial arts dojo in the L.A. area. But, see, so we 
lived in Long Beach, then we moved in with Bob and Toni, the dojo 
was over here. I mean, everything was just so far away. And then 
we found a house in Tujunga Canyon, which was lovely for the 
hiking, and it was pretty good for me to go to California State 
Northridge, where I went a couple of terms and toyed with getting 
a deaf studies major, and then didn't. But it was all— everywhere 
you go, you try not to go out during rush hour, because then that 
makes everything worse.  
 I did that for a while, and the lesbian community there— We 
played around with the SM community there, Marty and I did, so 
we had some community in the SM dyke community. There were 
some people who were like, we'd get together for a party or 
whatever, and it just wasn't the same. I mean, it was— people are 
lovely, lesbians are lovely wherever you find them, but it just 
wasn't the same kind of like, "There's a community here." It just 
didn't have that feel to it.  
 That's where Marty met his first female-to-male transsexual— 
transgendered person— and he was like, "Ooh, maybe that's me," 
and I was like, "Ew, gross. Why would you want to do that? Can't 
you just be a butch dyke? You're so cute as a butch dyke." I mean, I  
said all the wrong things. You know, whatever. I look back on it 
now and say, "I said all the wrong things." I started reading— Kate 
whoever she is, and Joan— no. Who's the woman who wrote Stone 
Butch Blues?  
Raiskin:  Leslie Feinberg.  
Wilder:  Yes. I started reading all that stuff, and I'm like, "Okay, something's 
going on for you that I don't understand. Maybe I'll be curious 
instead of saying, “Ew, gross. Why would you want to be a man? 
Men are so stinky!" So then he kind of played around with that idea 
for a while, but the only F-to-Ms that he could find in L.A. were, 
like, really cool, really well-dressed gay men. Women who became 
gay men. You know, pumping iron, making their bodies look all 
eh-eh-eh-eh-eh, and he was like, "I cannot. That is not— I can't— 
That is not me." He was like, "That is not me." She.  
 And then we decided that we wanted to be more with our 
community, so we moved to Berkeley. We moved to Berkeley,  and 
Marty then met FtMs who were, like, crunchy granola dykes. They 
just happened to be male. Like men who wanted to eat organic and 
do potlucks and stuff. And he was like, "Ooh, this really is me," and 
I was like, "Ew. Ugh. Okay, but I want to be a lesbian, so if you 
want to be F-to-M, I'm willing to be flexible about that, but I'm not 
going to be your primary partner. I'll be your secondary partner." 
Because, you know, we'd been non-monogamous our whole 
relationship.   
 I'm like, "You need to do what you need to do; I need to stay with 
what's real for me. So if you do that thing, I'm going to just— we’ll  
just be secondaries." "Well, I want to be primaries." And I'm like, 
"Okay, but you kind of have to make a choice, because I don't want 
to be primary partners— I don't want the F-to-M community to be 
my community. That's not what I want. I want to be in the lesbian 
community," and he was like, "Okay. Well, maybe I won't even do 
it until I'm forty, because the hormones are so hard on your liver." I 
was like, "Okay, that sounds good." Forty  seemed forever from 
there. "Ten years down the line? Oh, that's forever." Ten years 
down the line doesn't seem forever anymore, but at the time, I'm 
like, "Okay."  
 And then, we'd also been toying back and forth about whether or 
not to have children. "Should we have kids? Should we adopt? 
Should we have a foster kid?" We were going back and forth, back 
and forth, and Marty was like, "I don't want to have kids unless we 
have a job that has money, with healthcare." That was his thing. I'm 
like, "Okay. Well, if that's what you need." Looking back on it, I’m 
like, "That is so reasonable," but at the time, I was like, "People have 
kids all the time! Why do you need healthcare and a job?" Anyway, 
that was his thing. That's what he  wanted. He wanted healthcare 
and a job and all that kind of good stuff.  
 Then we decided we weren't going to have kids. They cost too 
much money, they're too much trouble, too much time, too much 
effort. All things that I still agree with, by the way. But  then a  
friend of mine— a lesbian couple that we knew, that we were close 
to, that we'd met through the dojo, through the Karate Women— 
they decided they were going to have a kid. Of course, we knew 
they were pregnant, they were about to have this kid, and  then they 
had this kid. They named this kid Kol Eva. K-O-L. ‘Kol’ means 
‘voice’ in Hebrew— Jewish family— and the partner of the woman 
who birthed the child called me and told me that she was born, and 
I just fell apart. I was just like, "I'm supposed to have a baby." It was 
just like, "She's the voice from the other side. Her name's ‘Voice,’ 
she brought the voice from the other side. Somebody wants us to be 
parents. That's what I'm supposed to do."  
 Marty came home from work, and I'm still crying, and I'm  like, "I'm 
supposed to have a baby. That's what I'm supposed to do." I mean, 
we had decided we weren't going to. I was thirty-six at this 
proclamation. And Marty said, "That's it! I'm supposed to have a 
baby, and then I can become a man!" Well, by this point, we were 
already primarried. I told him, "I don't even want to have a 
primarriage if you're going to become a man, because I want my 
community to be the lesbian community." But by this point, I've 
decided I have to have a baby, she is deciding she's going to have a 
baby and then she's going to become a man, and we've already 
made this primarriage commitment.  
 Then what I took on is, "Okay. Gender is a social construct. I am 
going to figure out this thing about gender, and I'm going to 
transcend gender,  because I love Marty, and Marty's going to be  
my partner, and we're going to do this thing, and I'm going to lick 
this thing!" So I tried really hard for— I don't know, when did I 
make that proclamation? I tried really hard. And then we had a 
couple kids,  and then Marty changed into a guy, and that was 
really hard for me. I just didn't— I didn't like the way he looked 
without breasts, I didn't feel attracted to him as a man. Some of the 
characteristics that he had as a woman, he continued to have as a 
man,  and I was really offended. Like he didn't do any of the 
housework unless I begged him. Well, asked him, but— You know, 
he became less patient for emotional processing.  
 Of course, it was a little hard to tell, because we were also 
parenting these two small children, and my  niece who had some 
trauma. We were trying to manage— And then he became 
unemployed, so we were managing a gender transition, 
unemployment, a traumatized at the time five-year-old, babies who 
were then developmentally whatever, becoming toddlers and stuff. 
It was just too much.  
Raiskin:  Who carried the children?  
Wilder:  I carried one, she carried one. So, she had a baby, and seven months 
later, I had a baby. The kids were seven months apart. Which is not 
like having twins. It's not.  
Long:  Did you have the same donor?  
Wilder:  Yes. Yes. They're biologically— we went to the sperm bank. We 
tried a bunch of different ways to— like, friends of friends, and  
men, whatever, but then we were so relieved to go to the sperm 
bank and be like, "Okay—" 
Long: Is this the Sperm Bank of California in Berkeley?  
Wilder:  Yep. We used the Sperm Bank of California in Berkeley, and the 
sperm cost $185 for a little tiny teeny vial that had— I mean, the 
vial's this big around, and about this tall. One hundred eighty-five 
dollars  a vial. That was for a known donor. The unknown donor 
was cheaper— $140 a vial— and we were like— we didn't feel like 
we could take that away from our kids. We felt like if they wanted 
to know who their biological father was eventually, that they 
should be able to— 
 Now my kids are eighteen  and they're completely not interested. 
That money was down the toilet, but whatever. It's fine. And I, at 
the time, was actually taking my sexy ass over into Marin County 
and giving men full— not full service— massage with a release, 
which means you jerk them off. It wasn't full service. I never did 
full service. “Erotic massage,”  they called it. Making pretty good 
money over there, so I could truck the money over to the sperm 
bank to buy sperm so I could try  to get pregnant. That's what I was 
doing!  
 People were like, "Why don't you just— “I’m  like, "Yeah, right! I 
don't know where it comes from. He's going to be anonymous. I 
don't even know if he's shooting blanks. I'm not sticking some 
anonymous dude's sperm up my— no!" But it was sort of ironic  
that I'd be like, "Okay, and now I'll go over here and buy this sperm 
for— ." It was— and then once I got pregnant, I stopped doing that, 
because it was just too— it was too much.  
 Anyway, that was an interesting adventure. I was doing that, and 
Marty was working, and then when Marty lost his— well, he went 
to interview at California State— He went to interview at UC 
Berkeley for a database job, because he'd taught himself how to 
manage databases— and their fundraising—. You know, all 
universities have a fundraising place where they try to get more 
money from alum and all that kind of stuff. There was a job 
opening to manage the database for the fundraising database, and 
he went to apply for that job. He was in transition, he was taking 
some hormones, he'd had his first upper body surgery, he was 
heading for his second in a few months, and somebody assumed he 
was male and called him “him.”   
 At that point, he then started to identify as “he” everywhere he 
went, which was a relief to me, because up until that point, I had to 
call him “he” to all the F-to-Ms and the people in that community, 
and I had to call him “she” to everybody else. I could do one or the 
other, but to try to manage which one I was doing in the moment? 
That was difficult.  
 So anyway, he transitioned to male, and we had two young 
children who knew that Marty used to be a man, and they used to 
have these delightful conversations. I remember when we got this 
new neighbor. She came, and my son said to her, "This is my mom,  
and my dad's my mom, too, because my dad birthed me and then 
he became my dad," and she was like, "That's actually not possible." 
She then looked at me, and I said, "It's what happened." We'd have 
these conversations where the kids just knew that that was their 
reality. When they got a little older, I was like, "You might want to 
be a little more careful."  
 Then we moved up to Oregon in 2004, so the kids were four. Kite  
was almost five, and Mariner was four-and-a-half-ish. And I told 
them, "In many circles, this is going to be fine, but in some circles, 
you might want to be careful." Then they went to school at Blue 
Mountain, which was really difficult. It was a free school, one of 
those Summer Hill kind of model school, and it was a really 
difficult place for them. Bad things happened there. But they went 
there for a year, and then they went to Trent Elementary, which 
exists no longer. I told them that they might not be able to talk to 
their peers about these things, and I don't know that I ever really 
needed to do that. It's never been an issue for them. Any time 
they've ever said anything to anybody, people have been like, 
"Cool," and they've moved on, but the climate has totally changed.  
 When Marty said, "Yeah, yeah, I'm going to do this transgender 
thing," I'm like, "You're going to do it here, in Berkeley, because I 
don't want you transitioning in Oregon. I don't want you to get 
killed for it." But, I don't know, maybe it would've been safe to do it 
up here. It's hard to tell. But at the time, the climate was changing,  
but it hadn't— in my mind, it hadn't changed. So, that's what 
happened.  
Raiskin:  Did you still have a relationship with your family of origin?  
Wilder:  Yeah, we stayed in touch with all them, and they were pretty cool 
with  the whole Marty thing.  
Raiskin:  How about the kids?  
Wilder:  Yeah. Yeah. That was all fine. I mean, I wish that my kids had had a 
stronger relationship with my mom, who actually wound up 
marrying a lesbian. So, my mom, I now have two moms. But I just 
could  never kind of get that going, and there was a big rift in my 
family for a while. When I first moved to OWL Farm and identified 
as a separatist, I wouldn't talk to any of the men in my family, and 
my mom was married to a man, and I was having difficulty in  my 
relationship with my mom, so there was a period of about eight 
years where I didn't have much contact with my family. But by the 
time I had Marty and we had kids and all that kind of stuff, we 
started trying to bring it back in. Now we do a yearly family 
reunion and everybody's pretty cool.  
Raiskin:  Where did your kids go to school in Eugene?  
Wilder:  They went to Trent Elementary, and then, the next year I took 
Mariner out of school, because he was having a lot of behavioral 
issues. He got identified as  being on the autism spectrum, which— 
his diagnosis doesn't exist anymore, but at the time, it did. He got  
diagnosed with PDD-NOS— Pervasive Developmental Disorder-
Not Otherwise Specified— and he does have, definitely, some 
developmental delay signs that I  consider on the autism spectrum. 
Kite is very kinesthetic and very socially inclined, so we left him in 
school. Mariner was home schooled. Then Marty and Beth bought 
the house in Eugene, and I lived in a van for a little while and was 
kind of homeless and— my housing was kind of— but I was still 
seeing the kids half time. We were still doing half time, half time. 
And then the kids went to Adams Elementary in fourth grade, and 
then they went to Roosevelt Middle School, South Eugene. They 
just graduated from  South.  
Raiskin:  So they went where you went.  
Wilder:  They went where I went. Yeah. They went where I went. And then, 
Mariner's going to go to Lane, and Kite's going to go to OSU. So 
they're starting to launch. Works for me. Yeah.  
 I want to say one more thing about OWL Farm and my experience 
with being a part of that community. Even though I was only a 
land dyke for eighteen  months— or for two years; eighteen  months 
and eighteen months. Three years total— there's something about 
having come into what I consider my adulthood in that milieu that 
I still draw on, on a regular basis. There's something about— I 
mean, I consider myself pretty Buddhist inclined, all that ‘all that is 
is we are all one’ kind of thing, but I got there through my feminine 
sensibilities, and in a milieu where the feminine was the deepest 
place we could go. The feminine was sacred. What we held in our  
bodies and in our spirits, and our connection with the earth, it was 
a special relationship that only women could hold.  
 And I really still feel like when I go into women only space, like 
OreGaia, which I just came from last weekend, or a Fly Away 
Home ritual, or Whispering Oaks— without trans women. I'm just 
going to say it. Without trans women, in a women-only space— 
there's something that's created there that feeds me, that feels like 
home, that feels magical, that I feel like I will draw on forever, even 
if I never step on land again. And I feel like OWL did that for many 
women. We came there, and we went away different. We went 
away with something that was forever in us. So, I just feel 
incredibly grateful for everybody who helped make that happen, 
because there was a whole bunch that happened before I showed 
up. Women pulling money together and figuring out how to do it 
and wanting to be on the land and knowing that that was 
important. And I have been so fortunate to walk into these sacred 
places on the shoulders of giants, on the shoulders or women who 
worked really hard.  
 I came out at a time where I could go through the streets with the 
dyke marches, and just be lesbian and proud, and not be afraid that 
I was going to lose my job the next day. Coming out in '82 was 
easy. It was easy. Only twice in my life have I felt that I'm in danger 
because I'm a lesbian, and that was because I was  in a rural area 
and someone pegged me as a dyke and said something nasty to me, 
and I was like, "Ooh, this is what women are talking about!" But  
I've just been so fortunate to be able to be relaxed and in my body 
and own it without the need to be super protective and careful. I've 
never really had to be careful about being a witch, about being a 
dyke, and I just feel really grateful for that.  
Long:  I guess we have a couple more questions to ask you. One is, have 
you thought about lesbians and aging, and what's your future in 
Eugene as you age?  
Wilder:  Yes. I'm much more concerned about my friends who live on land 
that are approaching their eighties  and they're still moving their 
wood around for their primary source of heat. I feel concerned 
about their wellbeing and safety. When we fall and break at this 
age, it's not good, and I don't see them having great backup plans. 
Which is part of why I've decided not to continue to live on land.  
 My house that I just bought with my domestic other, Georgia— 
we're not romantic, but we've made a commitment to live together 
and be each other's person. We check in at the end of the day, and 
we encourage each other to eat salad and stretch. All those things 
that aging women need. So we do that for each other. "Okay, now I 
need some cardio. Okay. Let's make a commitment to go out there 
and really walk in  the neighborhood." "Okay." We're going to grow 
old together. This is our idea.  
 We just bought a house. It's a split-level house, and the top level, 
there's no stairs going into it. That's part of what  we loved about 
this house. If we wind up having mobility issues, we can live on the  
top floor, and have our young, very cute lesbian caregivers live on 
the bottom floor, because there's laundry facilities down there, 
there's a kitchen down there, and they can come up the stairs and 
help us out with our— hopefully not our Depends, but you know, 
whatever it is we need help with, because you know how it is when 
you get older. It might be Depends! So I have thought about that.  
 I work in hospice. I'm a social worker in hospice, and I've seen 
what happens to people when they get old. I've seen what happens 
with dementia, and if I get diagnosed with dementia, I am going to 
go the way of Peg Morton. You know about Peg Morton?  
Raiskin:  Why don't you— 
Wilder:  Peg Morton got pneumonia. She was in our community. She was in 
her eighties, I think eighty-six or something like that. She got 
pneumonia and did a round of being in the hospital or whatever, 
and she said, "I am not going to continue to use up these resources. 
I don't want to be medicalized. My time has come. I'm going to  stop 
eating and drinking." There's a thing called Voluntarily Stopping 
Eating and Drinking. We call it VSED, because social workers make 
everything an acronym, and it's a thing that people can do.  
 There's Death with Dignity in Oregon. There is. Tee Corinne used 
Death with Dignity. But to qualify with Death with  Dignity, you 
have to have a diagnosis that you will die within six months, you 
have to be of sound mind, and  you have to be able to take the 
medications yourself. You have to see two doctors at least fifteen   
days apart, and if you get a diagnosis of Alzheimer's, you don't 
qualify for Death with  Dignity. MS, ALS, Parkinson's, none of those 
diagnoses will qualify for Death with Dignity, because all of those 
disease processes mean by the time that you qualify to take the 
medication, for some reason or another, you can't. ALS, you can't 
take the medication yourself. Same with Parkinson's. It's just, it's 
not— it's great that we have Death with Dignity, in my opinion, but 
it doesn't work for everybody.  
 VSED, however— Voluntarily Stopping Eating and Drinking— if 
you decide that you're done, you can just not eat and drink. It's not 
romantic. It's not easy. But it is a way that you can do it, and Peg 
Morton a couple of years ago decided to take this route, and her 
community was heartbroken. She was an activist. She wasn't a 
lesbian, that I know of, but she was an activist, a very strong peace 
activist, an environmentalist. She has a lesbian daughter. She has 
another daughter, I don't know her sexual orientation. Her 
daughters weren't happy. They weren't ready for her to go. Her 
community wasn't ready. And she basically said, "It's my life, it's 
my choice. I'm going." That was really— she was a really pioneer 
for us.  
 So, that's my route. If I get Alzheimer's, I'm not going to have my 
kids struggle whether or not they should come visit me when I 
don't recognize them anymore. I'm not going to do that. We're 
using far too many of our resources to poke food in people's 
mouths who don't even know who they are anymore. They can't  
even say their own names. That's not okay. And we can't kill them, 
because we don't live in that kind of culture. But something needs 
to shift, because we're spending an incredible amount of resources 
keeping people alive who have no— from  this perspective, the 
quality of life that they have is negligible.  
Raiskin:  Can you imagine aging in community?  
Wilder:  Oh yeah, well that's what Georgia and I are creating. My sister just 
moved in with us, and so we have— she’s  fifty-one. She'll be fifty-
two in September. Georgia's fifty-two. I'm fifty-seven. Our idea is 
that we will age together, and that if Lynn moves out, maybe 
someone else will move in. The downstairs rooms are downstairs, 
so, as we age, some of us don't do the stairs so well. Right now the 
stairs aren't a problem for me. Some people will do stairs until 
they're ninety-whatever. So we talk about that. Georgia and I talk 
about that. I talk about it with my sister.  
Raiskin:  I mean the broader community, like the way you have been with 
lots of lesbians.  
Wilder:  Around? I can't imagine that we won't still want to be around each 
other. I like the idea of trying to cultivate friendships with younger 
women,  because what I see with women who are elderly— not just 
lesbians, but elderly women— their family and their friends die, 
and then pretty soon it's basically just them. Unless they have a 
strong family, which a lot of us don't. So I'm a fan of cultivating 
relationships with younger— especially women, and having— and  
I have chosen family that are not just lesbians. I like to cultivate— I 
have a family in my life who's— well, she's bisexual and non-
monogamous, but she happens to be married to a monogamous 
man. Behaviorally, she's sexually monogamous, but I know that 
she's non-monogamous and bisexual. Not that it really matters, but 
she's my best friend. And they have a couple of kids, and those kids 
relate to me as a goddess— well, I'm goddess aunt to one, and  
goddess mother to the other. And they're my family. So I'm 
expecting that, as they get older, I'll still be family with them.  
 This woman who's a friend of mine is younger than me, and I like 
that, that she's younger than me. I'm like, "Maybe you'll bring  me 
soup if I need it," you know? I'm a fan of cultivating that. And the 
lesbians that I love and create community with, they’re maybe one 
half-circle out where, yes, we have community gatherings at my 
home or whatever like that, but we're a little bit more—  
 Community can be defined many different ways. There's the 
community that I live with, that are my family, my chosen family, 
and I expect that if they need or want something, or I— that we're 
going to try to figure that out together. And then one step out 
would be the lesbians that have been in my life that maybe come 
over and party. And then another step out would be women that 
I've known forever in this community, like Lorraine and Laura 
Phillips, and like that.  
 They're not absolute boundaries. They're permeable. So, I'm going 
to be a lesbian for the rest of my life. I came back in 2011. I'm not  
leaving again. This is my community. Lesbians are really important 
to me, and I expect them always to be a part of my community, and 
then the in-and-out with the inner community. I don't know, I 
guess we'll find out.  
Raiskin:  What do you think you brought specifically to the community that 
contributed and allowed you to find your place there?  
Wilder:  Think Tigger. That's me. I'm not afraid to get up in front of  
everybody and say, "Let's say ‘We love lesbians! We love lesbians!’" 
That's me. I'll do it. I'll do it tomorrow. And women love that. 
They're like, "Ooh, I can say that if everyone else is saying it!" I'm 
really good at noticing different people and giving them kudos 
for— you know, I don't know why I keep talking about Lorraine 
Ironplow, but she gave us a lot of her intelligence, and she's got a 
fine mind. She's got a really beautiful perspective, and her voice 
adds to our choir. That's something that I can reflect to her and do. 
I'm really good at thanking people for what they do, and 
appreciating people. I love well, and I'm well loved, so love is 
important, you know? I'm not afraid to love people. Love, that's 
what I've brought to my community.  
Long:  We have one last question to ask. If— fast-forward fifty years— 
there's a young person— maybe LGBT— person looking at your 
video, what message would you like to give to that person?  
Wilder:  Well, see, LGBT are different things. I think one of the things that I 
feel sad about in our current way of looking at things is that  
LGBTQIAAAA— what the heck? For me, L is a thing, and G is a 
thing, and B is a thing, and T is a thing, and Q is a thing, and A is a 
thing, and I is a thing. They're all things. And when you put them 
into one big alphabet soup, I don't resonate with that. I don't sit 
under that umbrella. Pride does nothing for me, because I can't see 
the L in Pride. I heard that there were Ls, lesbians in the last Pride, 
and that it was a happening thing, but I  didn't even feel motivated 
to go.  
 Used to be it was the dyke march that we would go to, and it was 
mostly lesbians with a few straight women who supported us. I 
could relate to that. Behind the L is a woman, right? That's how 
we're lesbians is that we're  women, and then we get to be lesbians. 
So, for me, lesbian is different from all those other things. And 
there's a temptation, in our current culture, to lump them under 
one category, because they're all not heterosexual, and I don't feel 
“lumpable.” And I think— that there's something about that. My 
guess is that even in fifty years, that there's something about that 
that will still be true. That there will still be women who are 
socially, emotionally, romantically— whatever— inclined to be 
intimate with other women, and that is the way that they feel is the 
most truest way to express their being, and that that is something 
that will be true forever.  
 That's my feeling of it. And that women—or people—who are 
bisexual or trans or queer or whatever are doing  a different 
expression of what is not heteronormative. I mean, there's certainly  
plenty of people out there who are female born and attracted to 
men, and they want to get together with a man, and blah blah blah, 
and the reverse is true. That's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. 
And there are people who feel that way, too.  
 My wish is that we could somehow crack the boxes of what people 
are supposed to be, and help encourage them be what they want to 
be, and maybe that's lesbian. Which is not the same as being 
bisexual. It's just not the same. And for me, having come out in 
1982, and been among women in all these intimate ways— both 
rolling around in bed with one or two other gals, and being in 
communities saying, "I love lesbians!" has been one of the 
profoundest experiences of my life, and I feel so grateful that I got 
to come out in 1982 and have that experience. Anybody who comes 
after me who wants to identify as lesbian, I hope you can feel the 
excitement and the love and the passion and the beauty of being 
able to be lesbian. Because I think it's the awesomest.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Raiskin:  Thanks so much!  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  