 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Christine Fraser on September 4, 
2018 taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies.  The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
library's Special Collections and University Archives and Professor 
Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's Gender and 
Sexuality Studies.  
Long:  Christine, please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this 
project and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve, and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Frazer:  I do and I thank you for doing it.  
Long:  Thank you very much. All right. Why don't we begin with a basic 
question. Can you please tell us when and where you were born, 
where you grew up and something about your early background?  
Frazer:  Okay. Well, I was born in San Francisco, California in June. June 
16th, 1949. Second child born to my mom and dad. My father was 
in the Air Force. We were stationed at Hamilton Air Force Base, 
which is in Marin County. And I was the second caesarian, so I was 
just scheduled at the big hospital. The Army hospital in San 
Francisco. So early childhood was really rural living in a military 
environment.  
 We lived in the country but in military housing. And my mother 
was— is a—well, was— passed away. Both my parents. She was a 
Spaniard,  and immigrated to the United States at six, and grew up 
in San Francisco. My father was an Irish descendant Okie. They met 
in San Francisco, got married after the war. Had my brother had 
me and I'm proud of this. My father had a vasectomy in 1949 after I 
was born because he said we got a boy and a girl, I'm not going to 
put my wife through this anymore.  And my mom said, "Well, 
Lloyd, what if you, I died and you want— life could change." And 
he said, "Take my chances." I've always been very proud of my 
father for that. So I feel like there's little feminism there in my dad, 
at least care for women. Growing up in the service, was very 
interesting. Did a couple of tours in Japan, two different times, saw 
Japan on their knees as a broken country in 1955 and went back in  
'62 and was there when Kennedy was assassinated.  Significant 
events, both of them. And it left a significant impression on me. I 
mean, I saw them humbled on their knees and then they got on 
their knees and said, "We're so sorry for the loss of your president." 
And they taught me so much about humility.  And also, gee, I think 
most Americans who don't get the opportunity to travel as 
children, they don't realize what it's like to be thrust into a 
homogeneous population because we're so non homogeneous in 
this country. And that was very interesting experience. It was 
partly helped me grow up a little bit, I think that second tour, 
learning humility as a teenager. Then we came back to the States 
and it was full thrust '60s hippie  era-coming-on Vietnam war.  
 And my brother and I just rolled right into— we became total pot-
smoking-acid-taking hippies. We did the tune in, turn on and drop 
out. And dropping out didn't mean lying around  being as pot-
smoking bum, it meant do something about life, make, make a  
difference. So we chose— five kids from an air force base, chose to 
go to become farmers, go back to the land, learn what our ancestors 
had used to survival. And because we really saw the world coming 
apart.  
I mean, we were on the— the buildup to Nixon's lying  times, the 
war.  It was tense times and that some percentage of us took it 
hardcore and said, “We're going to make a difference. We're going 
to just step out all this and do something else.” So where are we got 
this idea? I really don't remember, but we were like Santa Fe or  
Happy Valley, Idaho meeting. None of us ever having been to any 
of those places. And we flipped a coin and we ended up in Santa 
Fe. 
Frazer:  And so I spent three years out there on— trying to start two 
communes, joining another commune and then leaving because 
there's just not enough water out there. And once instead of things 
falling apart in society on the level we thought they were, where 
we thought we needed these land skills, we needed to be the 
pioneers that recaptured these land skills for survival  of our 
species.  We weren't fatalistic, we were really altruistic, but we just 
saw a need and thought this is where we'll— in fact, we were all 
working class, we were all raised, get a high school diploma and 
get a trade. That's how you make your family proud. So we chose 
farming. I spent almost a decade trying to be a farmer. At any rate, 
it wasn't really good out there for farming.  
 You couldn't get water rights. And so I said, "Let's go back to the 
West, but not California." It's too crowded. It was too crowded in 
'67, '68 for me. So I left. The summer of love, 1967 was wonderful. 
And then the streets were full of hippies from all over the country 
with nothing to do, no income, everybody's just can— pan 
handling and can I crash at your pad? And those of us that did the 
back to the land movement we were striving to produce.  
 So we shoved off and went out there and try to produce. And then 
when that didn't work out and then I ended up in Oregon. But the 
important point I want to bring up about it, the commune life   
though, is that because my life then as a hippie, and then I 
transitioned to lesbian and there's a joining of the hippies and the 
gay people as we started coming out in this generation and in the 
communes, that was very first place that we encountered 
communication issues. Where we realize we— all we had was 
Robert's Rules of Order, which was part of “The  Man.”  
Frazer:  And what else did we have? We had yelling at each other. We had, 
who can get on the tallest chair. We had all the women pushing me 
to the front. Somehow that energy was there.  They were, 
"Christine, you tell them the inequality in the workload, that we're 
doing, the babies, children cooking, cleaning, cleaning the 
outhouse, and the guys are cutting wood, hauling water, doing 
goats, doing the garden." And so that was the first time in my 
understanding of how our generation said, "Well, we don't have 
the right skills."  And by yelling at each other and saying, we're not 
going to  use Robert's Rules of Order, which has always bugged me, 
that Country Fair. They use them. We slowly started developing 
stuff and then I think the lesbian community took that even further, 
but with the help of the alternative community, I would call it the 
old, the hippy community alternative community.  
 My lover at the time we were— I said, "We got to go, we got to get 
out of here. We got to go some someplace where there's water." 
And we're like, “Well, how are we going to get out of here? We 
don't have money, we don't have jobs, we live on a commune. ” We 
kept, “Let's just get married, our parents will help us.”  
Frazer:  And they did. His parents got us a ‘49 Chevy pickup and my 
parents gave us 300 bucks, and we gave us the money to head on 
out. And we actually spent a summer in Minneapolis, and he 
wanted to live there. He had lived there before but I couldn’t  take 
the humidity. So that's why I'm like, we got to go back to the West.  
 And I had been to Oregon once, I had a friend— my mother's best 
friend's daughter lived here. When we went to New Mexico, we 
drove through Oregon up to Washington to pick up one of our air 
force base pals that was going with us and then stopped and saw 
her on the way back. And so that's all I could remember was how 
beautiful Oregon was.  
 I've got a friend in Eugene, we  can go, she'll put us up and we can 
find something there that we want to do. And that's what we did 
within a week we had great luck in that time, we found 300 acres of 
land in Dexter for fifty bucks a month with a cabin on it. Wood 
stove had a pump down at the barn. So there was water and I mean 
we were hauling water the last place we lived. A hundred gallon 
barrels on flatbed.  
Raiskin: Is it just the two of you?  
Frazer:  Yeah, it was just my partner and I, and then a bunch of our friends 
did end up coming out that next year. But they came out because I 
was pregnant with Juniper, my daughter who's forty-seven  when 
we came to Oregon, I was pregnant with her. It was September of 
1970 and then she was born in April  of '71. And then sadly my  
friend at that point, husband by the law, which was interesting 
because immediately I had new privileges. I didn't get looked at 
like hippie scum because I had a “Mrs. Hippie Scum” in front of 
my name, it was very strange.  
Frazer:  At any rate, he fell ill right after she was born and we struggled for 
a year and he died of lymphoma cancer. So, he just was this little 
blessing in my life that furthered me into another state, gave me a 
child and left me. And then because we got married for that gas 
money, I had social security windows benefits that, which I could 
have just sat back and been a little better off than a welfare mom, 
but I didn't want that for me or I want it for my child. So I put 
myself through automotive school. Not right away, but a little bit 
later.  
Raiskin: Can I ask you where she was born?  
Frazer:  Juniper was born in Dexter and that little cabin. Yeah.  
Long:  Who did you have attending with you?  
Frazer:  Nobody.  
Long:  Nobody.  
Frazer:  Nobody.  
Long:  Just your husband?  
Frazer:  Mm-hmm [affirmative].  
Long:  Wow.  
Frazer:  Yeah.  
Long:  How was that?  
Raiskin:  No complications?  
Frazer:  Nope. She was actually my second child. I have a sad story of 
having— I had a child at twenty, and he died when he was five 
months old. And that's part of my Jasper— Juniper's daddy. He 
took me— we met when I had a child that I had spent my whole 
pregnancy with my first lover. She said, "I'm going to New York." 
"And when are you coming back?" "I don't know." And then it was 
like, Whoa, I don't understand. And she was just leaving. So she 
broke my  heart and I said I'd never be with a woman again. So I 
kind of came out and went back in. But I had a baby boy and I said, 
"Well, I need a dad. I need a dad for this boy." And so I went 
shopping at the commune and I found this cute guy with a little 
gold cap tooth and little bandanna and he worked at a Montessori 
school.  Now, I'm twenty. I'm the youngest cousin in my family and 
I don't know anything about children, never even thought about 
having them. Just totally, whatever happens is groovy hippie life. 
And oh, I was happy to be pregnant. I had nothing against it, you 
know? But I immediately was like, I mean, he had a dad, but I 
didn't want to be with him. I didn't even tell him that I was 
pregnant.   
Frazer:  I just took off, I was like, “Ooh, I'm going to have a baby.” So at any 
rate, Jasper, he was just a maybe four or five years older than me, 
but really, I'm sure you remember at that age, it seems so much 
bigger. I'm twenty  I thought I was so on top of the world, but I'm 
twenty. 
He took me in to his commune that he was a founder of where he 
had his own room and everything and then when my son died, he 
held me up, and then he gave me Juniper and then he exited and 
we made that great decision— I'm getting married for gas money, 
and I ended up with that social security and that was a good help 
to getting me trained as a mechanic later.  
Raiskin:  So then you with Juniper alone or?  
Frazer:  So then after he died, well the other thing of the social security was 
I got a big fat check from them:  $3,000. I mean, I called them  up and 
said, what is this? And they said, "Well, you should have been on 
disability a year ago before he died." Once he had had an operation 
and he was basically disabled from that point, when we did know, 
we ended up getting on welfare, nobody suggested social security.  
We didn't really know about it, and then I call up welfare and said, 
"Well, do I got to pay you back?" I felt like I was getting double 
paid or something, you know? But they were like, "No, you didn't 
have it then." So, so I said, "Well great." And actually, I had already 
met some lesbians while I was juicing at the Emerald People's Food 
Co-op on Twenty-second and  Emerald Street, first food co-op in 
this town.   
Raiskin:  Can I take just have a break and then take you back to your 
description?  
Frazer:  Sure.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us when you had a sense that you were a lesbian?  
Frazer:  Oh, goodness. Yes. I was six, but I didn't have a name for it. I knew 
at six because I met an eight-year-old and I was absolutely her 
slave, and she gave me all kinds of butterfly stomach. And I knew 
that I felt really differently about her. And then I looked around 
and I was like, "I feel differently about girls. I feel like the boys 
feel." But I never thought I was a boy and never wanted to be a boy.  
I just knew that I felt differently. I didn't have a name for it, but I 
was raised Catholic, so I did figure it went on the bad side since it's 
all black and white in that world. So I was like, I'm different and 
weren't as not going to deal with that. So in fact, through my 
childhood I decided that I was from another planet.  And actually 
I'm a Gemini, so I'm like this actually many of us in here, Oh, I'm 
just from another planet. I'm like, that's why I'm so different. So, 
and that did okay.  In high school I had a girlfriend and we were in 
love and we made out. It's was it. We never had any more sexual 
feelings than the wonderful long make-out sessions. We would cut 
school, she was the manager at the candy counter at the movie 
theater and I was an usher at, and we'd cut school and this was an 
old theater with actual dressing rooms.   
Frazer:  And so we would go back there  where we had this little bed to lay 
down when you had your period and we lie around there, and 
make out and then we'd eat popcorn and candy.  
 We even went on double dates with guys, “Bye!” and then we'd 
spend the night together, but we didn't have sex. And at any rate, 
and then I came out as a hippie. Then I did the acid and while she 
got sent away, actually I should include that. My mother, she 
picked up right away that this was not a normal relationship. She 
actually didn't ever confront me directly.  She just said, "You know, 
this is not normal." And then evidently she talked to her parents 
and she ended up getting sent to live with her brother in 
Washington. So yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever talk to her?  
Frazer:  Well, I saw her years later, I found her working at a restaurant and 
I happily told her that I was a lesbian and she strangely told me 
that she had outgrown it. So I'm like, "Well, I never outgrew it." So, 
but I never forgot lovely, Rita Meter Maid  because the song was out 
and I had a Rita and she came from a very poor family. Her wages 
went to support the family, my wages were mine to spend. And so 
I spent my money on her taking her to the A&W Root Beer. 
Raiskin:  And this is in San Francisco?  
Frazer:  This is San Rafael.  
Raiskin:  San Rafael.   
Frazer:  Marin County. I was born in the city but I grew up in Marin 
County, which is— the base  is in the Northern part of the County 
between San Rafael and Novato, which used to be very country-ish, 
but now it's just freeways and people. Still got beautiful hills and 
all that. At any rate, yeah.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about Eugene before you came here?  
Frazer:  Really I knew nothing about Eugene, just at my mother's best 
friend's daughter lived here. And I don't even remember how she 
got here. She married somebody and ended up living here. And 
then she didn't even live here that long,  been gone a long time. Her 
house was up on Columbia street.  
Long: So, you’re in Dexter. 
Frazer:  Let's finish up on the gay— 
Long: Okay.  
Frazer:  Because— so high school and then that just got lost in the shuffle of 
tune in, turn on, drop out. No, I mean we started smoking pot and 
then my brother went to get pot one day and he came back with 
capsules and he said, "Well the guy didn't have any weed, but he 
said this is better and it lasts longer." And we'd never heard of LSD, 
wasn't in the papers yet. And boy, it changed our lives.  Now, I 
don't recommend people take LSD to change their lives, although 
they are now using it psychological treatment, which I think is very  
interesting because as a repressed lesbian all my childhood, I 
realized that, well, I knew that I wanted to be with women.  
Frazer:  I also had a repetitive dream where I got on a bus and a very nice 
looking— I'm a kid, a very nice looking adult woman sits down 
next to me and says, "I know where you want to go." And takes me 
to a Victorian house, traditional San Francisco Victorian, just like a 
cartoon house.  Women are pouring out of the windows and it's like 
a women Mecca. This was a wonderful dream because in my 
awake mind there were only two places where you found women, 
nuns and jail. And I didn't want to be a nun, so I was a juvenile 
delinquent. And there's a little inner part of me it was getting my 
things up so I could go to jail and be with women.  And that's what 
changed for me with LSD was— that tied to negativity in your 
childhood. That you're spending a little bit on the wrong side of 
things and it gave me a whole new perspective. I mean I felt like I 
learned that everything is one regardless of what it is.  I used to try 
to define it, but— That whole love, peace, we're all one, it's all 
good, just love each other. And that's what— Love the one you're 
with. That was real big with the hippie movement and it also 
fettered into lesbian times.  
So my coming out was in and out. I really came out with Kathy 
when I was pregnant with my son, Andon but she broke my heart. 
I just said, "If this is what it's like to love a woman, I'm not going to 
do it." You're already got eighteen, nineteen  years of repression. It's 
not that hard to repress again, and just say no. I mean, so I wasn't in  
denial of who I was. I just was hurt. I was hurt and I just wasn't 
willing to take the risk again.  And since I didn't really feel anything 
for men other than friendship, I just found a nice guy that worked 
at a Montessori school and I'm like, he knows about kids. That's a 
really good school they say. I didn't know anything. As it turns out, 
he didn't really get to be that dad and hands on.  I mean, he did 
what he did when he was alive. I mean he loved to hold Andon 
and no man, he know he hardly would put Juniper down because 
knew he was dying or fighting to stay alive. First you're fighting to 
stay alive then you're dying. You know what I mean?  
So at any rate, at the point when he died, I just completely came out 
again. I mean I'd had met lesbians at the food co op, Emerald  
People's Food Co op and then I think I just started hanging with 
them. And I went back to New Mexico to take his ashes to put them 
where my son is buried.  That was his request. And while I'm out 
there, I meet a bunch of lesbians living on what they were calling a 
goat farm. And then right after I left, lady who own the farm, 
kicked them all out and a bunch of them came out to Oregon and 
stayed with me.  And thus began, well, then I got into a relationship 
with Sage, who's Deb Huntley— actually lives here in Eugene. 
We're both in chorus still and she had $2,000. I got that $3,000 we 
put $4,000 down on a forty-acre plot of land in Williams, Oregon. 
And we moved  down there with $1,000 and my $300 social security 
check a month. And we tried to develop our acreage. We were 
going to have a dairy— goat dairy for milk and  cheese.  And then 
we were going to plant an apricot  orchard for a cash crop. We had  
wonderful southern exposure. Grapes would have  been good too, 
but I'm an anti-grape person other than for food. I mean, just can 
only grow so much wine, you know, people need to eat.  
At any rate, unfortunately, we didn't have enough money really to 
get things going. And  the times we were trying to do at first, just 
the two of us. And then there was pressure within our community 
to not be monogamous. Now, when we did our little falling in love, 
she wanted monogamy, she left somebody else for me. And then 
that just kind of  blew up after about a year.  
Frazer:  Then it was like, well now we're having an open relationship and 
we had a couple of different women come on to be with us for a 
while.  But in  long of it all, basically we never got things together 
enough. And I ended up  working for a farmer. Out of the  three 
years that we have that land,  I spent two seasons working for a 
farmer and the second season, I worked from early spring all the 
way to the very end of the season. First year he hired me on for the 
heavy part of picking, but he hired me for my calluses, which was 
cool. And then he kept me on ‘cause I was a good hard worker 
because I was raised from  really hard working people and I was 
raised— even if you got to clean toilets, any job’s a good job. So, at 
any rate. 
Raiskin:  Can you tell us what county is Williams  in? 
Frazer:  Williams is in Josephine County that that is part of the SO CLAP! 
community. There is now WomanShare and a number of other—  
 
Frazer:  but we at the time we were the first women down there. The only 
other women group at the time was Cabbage Lane and then OWL. 
In fact, we had the very first country women's music festival and 
that developed into a women's festival that happened here in 
Oregon every summer for a long time. It was small. It was mostly 
southern Oregon. But see, when we were all such a small 
community, why is Pride celebrated on a different day all over? 
That was done purposely so we could all migrate to each other's 
Prides.  Because we used to go to Seattle, Portland, they'd come 
down here, we'd go down— Well, there wasn't  anything in 
Roseburg and Grants Pass  but Ashland and doesn't matter, I mean 
it still happens. Some women choose to go up, like go for the 
Women's March, some of our women here chose to go to Portland 
instead of— I stayed here because I'm with Soromundi  and those 
were gigs for us, which we're very happy to be invited to. So, yeah.  
Life here in Eugene started for me as a total hippie, but it ‘shroomed pretty 
quickly, you know, post- Jasper and back into lesbians, back still 
doing the back-to-the-land, but that got all crazy. It was too hard 
work, I'm the one with the kid. And I also was the only one that 
was really doing any work. I'm out there working for the money, 
bringing in the social security. And then the crazy lover stuff, I just 
threw my hands up and said, "This is just crazy."  And I actually 
got— I didn't put it on my little sheet. I, before I went to work for 
Starflower, I got an offer through someone I was sleeping with  
from up here to go to out in the country. Lorraine worked for a 
gentleman he had a machine shop in a welding shop, and he was 
retired, and he wanted to auction his equipment off.  So he hired me 
to clean all of his equipment to get it ready to auction, big drills and 
machinery equipment. And he taught me how to weld. And 
actually that's how I got connected back to Starflower. I was  seeing 
somebody that was there driving there, and she wrecked the truck 
and I fixed it, cut off to some metal and closed it back up and then 
they offered me a job to work here.  
Long: And what year was that?  
Frazer:  I pretty sure that was like '75, 1975. Jain Elliott and I don't know if 
she's in this project, but Jain Elliott and I were number twelve  and 
number thirteen  at Symantec  [Starflower], we were pretty much 
hired right at the same time. And that was pre-collective procedure 
because that didn't happen that way after it was a collective 
procedure to get into Starflower whereas I was just asked by the 
two people that started it, "Would you come and work for us 
Christine?" because they knew— 
Raiskin:  You never interviewed at Starflower?  
Frazer:  I never interviewed, I was just offered a job. Yeah. And then right 
away we had a company that was— so I'm a warehouser, I'm doing 
whatever anybody needs done, we're deliveries, that kind of thing. 
But we had a Mercedes Benz and an old cattle truck that's the one 
that had cut off the hay portion that sat over the cab because Susan  
smashed it in over a bank overhang. And we didn't have any other 
trucks.  
Frazer:  We just did our little deliveries in those. And we got our stuff 
hauled from San Francisco by a hippie group down there that was 
trucking up and they brought us supplies off the docks down there. 
And they went out of business suddenly and that left us in a very 
big lurch and we just jumped in. We rented a semi. Charlie and 
Debbie are the two people who started  Starflower. And— 
Long: What are there— Charlie?  
Frazer:  Charlie and Debbie— hoo, it's not coming to you right now.  
Long: Glass?  
Frazer:  Glass. Absolutely. And Margaret and Tom Cormier who were 
married but both came out later. Now, Tom died of AIDS and 
Margaret lives in California somewhere. But anyway, we suddenly, 
we rented a semi and a forty  foot trailer and Charlie had driven one 
once. We did a run to San Francisco where he trained me to drive. 
And then I was the truck driver and the trainer. So I trained 
everybody else and I— my most— my most proudest training is 
Paula Jo Vaden because she went on after years of driving 
Starflower and she drove for one of the organically grown— I think 
it was that she drove for. She made a career out of it, whereas me, I 
only did it two years.   
 And for me, unfortunately I enjoyed driving a lot, but I had a 
problem with getting real sleepy about half an hour out. And then 
the other big problem was just I had a child and she was too young 
to leave and too young to take. I tried it both ways and there were 
collective issues, it's good to put these things on the record. This 
was my, "Okay, I'm done. I'm stepping out and collective meeting, 
discussion on giving. There were two children attached to my child 
and sort of acquired, adopted child that had been sort of dumped 
in our community, giving them health benefits.  And there was 
women who were— wanted, it said, “Well, if  children are going to  
get benefits, we want our dogs to have health benefits. I mean, 
there were no health benefits for dogs back then. But it's— didn't sit 
well with me. I mean, I'd already had separatist  lesbians in my face 
telling me I'd spawned the seed of man.  
Frazer:  And I used to like to push that point. If somebody I knew, could it 
be, if it was worth irritating them, not to be super mean, but I used 
to even say I'm a bisexual, which is totally not true. I mean, I had 
sex with men, but I never had any juice for them. And people ask 
me what does it mean straight, but what does it— I can say, you 
know what? It's very simple for me. It's like this, I don't dislike 
men. And there's men that are handsome, beautiful, that could 
even get— turned me on, but I have no passion for them. My 
passion runs with women and I think that's how you define that 
you're a lesbian. At least that's how I define myself as a lesbian. But 
it's not all about sex, obviously. It's not just about sex. It's about the 
nature of what kind of relationship you're comfortable in. And  
yeah. So, working at Starflower and then two years, loved the 
driving and all, but we had a pretty good crew going at that point. 
We hired a lot more. I had trained quite a few women, Paula Jo 
being one, and I'd set up all the truck maintenance.  
Raiskin:  How did you know how to do that?  
Frazer:  Well, when my husband died, the first time my vehicle broke down 
was when I took his ashes out to New Mexico. I blew an axle 
bearing on a ‘49 Chevy panel truck. I called my dad, I had  Jasper’s 
toolbox and he had like spare parts under the seat, but I didn't 
know  anything about cars other than— I knew that you had spark 
plugs and carburetor. I knew a few little things, but not, no real 
knowledge. And I didn't have any, really. I mean, I called my dad 
and he walked me through it and he told me to go buy a motor's 
manual. Told me I had to jack it up and, you know, get the axle 
supported.  And so I'm up in a Arroyo  Hondo, New Mexico at New 
Buffalo commune, jacking my car up with the bumper jack and 
putting it on chunks of wood and yeah, I pulled the axle, I took it 
into town and had the bearing put on, like my dad told me to. I 
managed to put it back together. If I remember right, I think the 
brakes were mechanical rear, so they didn't have any fluid to bleed. 
I just don't really remember the details, but I did it.  And basically 
that's what I did. Every time my car needed something, I did it. 
And then I taught myself, my dad told me to get a book, I got a 
book and then every time I had something go wrong. And then I  
learned that I needed to do regular maintenance. And I was self-
taught. After I quit working at Starflower, Juniper was five.  
Frazer:  I sent her up to the school for kindergarten, but she had been in our 
hippie daycare, which a bunch of lesbians worked at like Enid 
Lefton. They put her in first grade without even telling me. 
Frazer:  We just lived down the street from the school so I'm like watching, 
I'm waiting for my little five-year-old. I'm trotting back from school 
after twelve  o'clock. She don't come, she don't come. Ooh. I'm the 
one that lost a baby. So I knew the loss. I'm like, I get up there and 
they're like, "Oh, we put her in first grade. She was so obviously 
socialized." Because back then kindergarten was about socializing 
your child with other children, not the way it is now where you 
practically have to have a  degree to get into kindergarten. So at any 
rate, Junie is in school all day. I got a lot more time on my hands.  
Long: Which school did she go to?  
Frazer:  Laurel Hill, we lived on Augusta Street and Laurel Hill, she went 
there first and second grade. Yeah,  she went to all our schools here 
in Eugene, every two years at different school. I don't know why, 
just turned out that way from where we were living. Yeah, well, my 
neighbor—this was the big light bulb went off—my neighbor came 
out when I was tuning  my car, a woman, and she said, "What are 
doing?" And then I'm like, "I'm tuning my car." And she said, "Oh 
my gosh, I would pay you if you would do that to my car." And I  
just went “ding, ding.” I could make a living fixing cars. Dad made 
it a whole career out  of it, airplanes.  
Frazer:  But I was smart enough to know that I didn't know enough. And I 
had the fortune of my hippie marriage with the social security. I 
did have to take out a small loan, got a little grant based on my low 
income and a small student loan. And I put myself through 
automotive technology at LCC and I came out of there as their top 
pick, but nobody would  hire me. But the hippy garage. So I found 
Country VW and they had a policy of being  50 percent  women and, 
which they struggled to, and they had a second need that I shoe’d  
into, which is that the Rabbits were out just a couple of years. I 
think they came out in '75 or six. At any rate, they were starting to 
see them  on the aftermarket. Back then nobody knew that they 
didn't have to go to the  dealer for the first year or two. The dealer 
had everybody fooled into thinking it was required. It's only 
required for warranty.  
Raiskin:  The Volkswagen Rabbit car.  
Frazer:  Right.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
Frazer:  That's a water cooled car. And these were air cooled mechanics. All 
the previous Volkswagen were air cooled engines, air cooled 
engines and water-cooled engines are completely different beasts. 
And they needed a woman mechanic and someone who knew  
water-cooled and that I was a straight shoo-in. In fact, I finished my 
last term of the  schooling by working in the shop.  
Frazer:  And then the woman who was my supervisor became my lover. 
And I worked there for fourteen  years until we died on the vine of 
Reaganomics and the depression of the late '80s, early '90s recession 
for the country, depression for the Northwest.  
Frazer:  I actually was the very first non-woodworking enrollee to the Lane 
Community College Displaced Workers program. It was— it 
started out where it was just mill workers and loggers. But then as 
businesses— I mean we basically went out of business because 
business got too thin and we weren't on the high end of the auto 
industry anyway.  
Frazer:  We did all the broken down— we did the Womenspace  for free. We 
had a handful of university people that make the trek all the way 
out West Eleventh, just to support our shop, but we just didn't have 
a big enough pool to make it through that hard time. And we and 
many other businesses went out. I mean, I don't know the stats on 
that time, but I know  there were many businesses that— and some 
of it was people letting go. Like my partner who we were together 
seven years, we stayed working together in the shop for fourteen  
years. We're still very good friends.  
Frazer:  She's the caretaker at OWL Farm and she wanted out and I wasn't 
tired of doing it, but so she got out the last two years I switched 
because I had started having trouble with my hands from my feet.  
We didn't make a connection yet, but I couldn't hold my tools. So 
the last two years I service managed in the shop and hired other 
people and she helped me on the back end with books and I 
wanted them all to become co-op members and wanted them to— 
we were in the red at the time and I said, "If you will help me get 
this shop in the black, I'll give you ownership.” 
Frazer:  Right now Nancy and I are the  last co-op owners.  So we basically 
owned it. We weren't a co-op anymore either. Another 
Reaganomics fallout was it became too expensive to be a co-op. So 
we became an S Corp. 
Raiskin:  What's the difference and why was it more expensive to be a co-op? 
Frazer:  Double taxation as a co-op after Reaganomics, after they changed 
the tax code, we were paying way too high of taxes. So all we had 
to do was incorporate as an S Corp and still run ourselves like a co-
op collective, and beat out that better taxing, lower tax bracket. 
Raiskin:  This whole time that you're working and your daughter's going to 
school, what are you doing socially?  
Frazer:  So yeah, I mean those years at the shop were really what I call the 
heyday of the lesbian community in Eugene. I mean, I don't know 
at what point when we, when we tried to tally and came up with 
we're fifty, fifty-five lesbians. I mean, well, there were the tree 
planting crews and then our hippy, compadres, the Hoedads and 
then there was Zoo Zoo’s  and there was Mama’s Home fried 
Truckstop and all of them employed hippies and lesbians and gay  
guys. Amazon Kung Fu. I was a Kung Fu, my feet killed me for 
Kung Fu.  
Long: What was that truck stop like? 
Frazer:  Mama's Homefried Truckstop. I think it was right off the 
Thirteenth and it was started by a— oh, God what's the name? 
They were country fair starters. Bill and I can't remember her name. 
She started Mama's Homefried Truckstop. 
Long: Did they serve particular kinds of food or?  
Frazer:  Yeah, they did the hippie breakfast and it was some brown rice 
and, but it wasn't all vegan like everything is now or vegetarian, 
but you could have it either way. Yeah. And well, Mother Kali’s  
goes way back. Mother Kali started out over in the Whiteaker. I 
mean the Whiteaker was the center of everything. Well, my 
daughter lives there now. We lived in two houses together when 
she was a child in the Whiteaker and she's lived in two or three 
houses there. But she owns a house right down in there. Yeah. It 
was right on the corner of Blair and Fourth Street, no, Fifth. 
Raiskin: What was the Mother Kali's bookstore like?  
Frazer:  Oh, well it was, I mean, all women's books, books by women about 
women, about things women are interested in, about lesbians, lots 
of small publishers. I mean it was a wonderful thing. Izzie created 
and she was— I'm trying to remember what her first name was?  
Anne before she became Izzie  and not quite sure what she died, 
when she died, who she was. People changed their names. 
Long:  She was Izzie when she died.  
Frazer:  Yeah. I think she was. 
Raiskin: Where you are reader?  
Frazer:  Yes. 
Long:  You remember what you were reading then?  
Frazer:  Oh gosh. I have a terrible memory so probably not. And you know, 
probably wasn't reading a ton when I was working on cars. It was a 
pretty absorbing— plus having a kid. But reading would 
periodically, I mean all the women's— the different women's 
newsletters that came in through Mother Kali’s, from different 
places in the country. We always  wanted to read the newspapers. 
Of course, we were reading Jackrabbit Press and then Women's 
Press. That was the one illegal thing that we did at Starflower. We 
were not allowed— we were a worker owned company. We were 
not commercially licensed drivers, but we could drive semis, we 
could drive anything our company was owned or leased because 
we were worker-owned. So we only needed a chauffeur's license.  
We weren't allowed to haul anybody else's goods though.  But we 
used to take both Jackrabbit Press and stuff. And I'm trying to 
remember what the hippie paper was back then. I can't remember.  
And then Women's Press and we would take them up to Seattle and 
down to San Francisco.  
Long:  You distributed them?  
Frazer:  We distributed them illegally. We dropped to stores that were on 
our route anyway because they were our— but just, uh, no charge. 
We're not doing that.  
Long:  Do you remember what Jackrabbit Press printed?  
Frazer:  I can't. They printed the hippie paper, which I can't remember what 
it was called, but they printed a couple of other things and they 
also printed, if you wanted to put together a little storybook or 
something, they printed different things. And Kate, Jackrabbit, I  
thought I mentioned to her, somebody mentioned her name, like 
she was maybe being tapped about some of the history for this.  
Frazer:  I haven't seen her in years, but I read her cool book she wrote about 
some cars. I'd love to see her again. Been a long time you know. 
When you've been in this community, pretty  much my whole 
lesbian adult life, you lose touch with people. People move on. Last 
I heard she was living in Seattle so.  
Frazer:  Yeah, but I mean Mother Kali’s  was a center point of just to go— 
women's calendars, you wanted to buy a gift, you'd go to Mother 
Kali's. We didn't have another places to shop except for—well— 
then Kiva  had the trinkets, we had the lesbian and alternative 
community, the gay lesbian alternative community hook in  
through the natural food stores. Starflower was a big prominence 
for that. And then Country VW, and then you throw in the tree 
planting’ gals and Zoo Zoo’s and what was it? Wild  Iris came along 
a little later.  
Frazer:  We were an incredible— this town's incredible, both on the 
alternative, the hippie side, the lesbian, gay side for creating 
businesses. We created the Energy Bank, Country VW, though I did 
a lot more stuff active community stuff through the years at 
country VW— 
Raiskin:  What was the energy bank? 
Frazer:  —because I was only two years at Starflower and was very busy , 
training people. And we expanded so much during that period of 
time. I'm very proud though, that Starflower went on for so long. 
It's too bad that it got killed. But the industry just changed. 
Raiskin:  The Energy Bank? What was that?  
Frazer:  And the Energy Bank, well, it was an exchange bank for services. 
So you could join the energy banks, list out what services you have 
to offer and then you provide those services, which gives you the 
credits to then get services from somebody else in the Energy Bank.  
Long: So there was no money.  
Frazer:  No money.  
Long: It was exchange of services.   
Frazer:  It was an exchange of services.  
Long: Where was it?  
Frazer:  Well, it wasn't anywhere.  
Long: But somebody had to organize it to co-ordinate it.  
Frazer:  Well, I'm trying to remember. It seemed like we must have had like 
a little group put it together and maybe a little board.  
Raiskin: How do you determine how many points each service  is worth? 
Frazer:  Yeah. Unfortunately, I wasn't involved in organizing any of it. I 
was involved in, yes, we'll join and monitoring the back and forth. 
Unfortunately, for the Energy Bank, or for us, I should say, our 
services were in high demand. And we could only absorb so many 
of the other services, you know what I mean? Because we had to 
make money to have the doors open and make our salaries and 
automotive shops not— 
Long:  You mean Country VW was in high demand?  
Frazer:  Yes. Our services were in high demand for exchange like that.  
There were a lot more hippie, gay, lesbian people with little money 
than there were with big money. You know what I mean? And 
everybody just loved the idea and it's too bad that, that we don't 
have more of that. The other thing that we did in that time period 
with Country Volkswagen, the women's tree planning groups were 
part of it. I think Zoo Zoo’s  was part of it. Some of the men and the  
Hoedads. We formed the Insurance Trust. We formed a group and 
we purchased insurance  for our businesses individual, medical 
insurance, not, I mean, we had insurances as businesses.  
Frazer:  We formed an Insurance Trust and figured out that Robert Despain 
is a hippie man—that unfortunately just died suddenly of an 
aneurysm—but he’s an old Country Fair guy. And he was someone 
that, that's where I got to know him. We worked together getting 
that together. So we had to learn about insurance, how did it work 
and what do we have to do legally? We had some help.  
Long:  Who was the underwriter?  
Frazer:  And I don't remember those kinds of details but we got ourselves 
medical insurance at a better rate because, then we could’ve— 
doing it with small groups, we made ourselves a larger group.  
Raiskin: And did you have workmen’s compensation?  
Frazer:  Yes. We paid into that. That's required by state. I mean, to be illegal 
business.  
Raiskin: Yeah.  
Frazer:  Yeah. And we did all our own books at Country VW. We run 
ourselves quite differently because we were co-op. All the 
mechanics did a certain portion of inventory. They did their own 
invoicing up until the very end when I couldn't hold my wrenches 
any more  then I took over as service manager and took over that 
end. Then I got a computer and that's how I first learned about  
computers. That's then I ended up in computers because I got one  
from the shop.  
Long: Can you let us know if there were other lesbian mothers in the 
community that you might have connected  with?  
Frazer:  Ah, yes. Well they were not a lot of lesbian children in our 
generation. We have our “Gold Stars” that never had sex with a 
man. And a lot of women just never managed to come out before 
that. And some women later decided to have children, but those of 
us that had children and then before we came out, I don't think I 
ever knew anybody at that time of life that said, "Oh, I want to have 
a kid. I'll go get one with a man." When that started happening, it 
was the turkey baster and the anonymous donations by a group of 
gay men into the bowl. And then later I have some friends that 
have kids that are siblings to each other because they have the same 
gay father. Sadly, all those men are dead  from AIDS.  
Frazer:  So we didn't have a lot of children. Kendra  Morrigan had a 
daughter. We had Omaloka, who her mother was a crazy job who 
just dumped her off in our community and she was taken care of 
by different groups of women and she hung out with Juniper a lot. 
Jade, the Amazon Kung Fu club is where all the kids— when 
Juniper went to Lincoln school, that would be third and fourth 
grade. That's when we had Eugene 4J School District got  its first 
educational round of dealing with gay children, gay and lesbian 
children.   
Raiskin:  You mean children of the gay and lesbian parents.  
Frazer:  Yes. The children of gay and lesbian parents. Squabbles on the 
school yard. Things said like “queer” and our kids weren't going 
back down. We had Royce, black boy. They were the twins. Jessie 
and I can't remember the other one. And then Junie and other 
several other, they hung with each other and they protected each 
other. And that started a row in the school. And that opened up a 
tremendous dialogue of our needs as a community.  
Raiskin:  Did you talk to teachers and principals?  
Frazer:  Yes. Teachers and principals 4J School District was marvelous. The 
school was marvelous and it was the beginning of diversity  for gay 
children and awareness of— you know. And on the other side, the 
hippie thing that was going on was Children's House was a little 
hippie commune where they were schooling their kids at home. 
And somehow the school district found out somebody who worked 
with the school district in some other capacity.  
Frazer:  They had kids that they were having big problems with and they 
didn't know what to do with them. We had no special schools 
within the schools right that time. And they sent those kids up to 
Children's House and they ended up doing really, really well. And 
Children's House ended up becoming one of those first special little 
schools. There was a lot of them.  
Raiskin:  So it was a school ran by  hippies?   
Frazer:  Uh-hm. [affirmative]. It  wasn't an official school.  
Raiskin:  But the school district would send the children that were having 
behavioral problems to that school.  
Frazer:  You'd have to talk to somebody like Nancy Louise, my partner 
from Country VW and my ex-lover who's at OWL Farm now, she 
was part of Children's House, as to the more specifics. But I know 
that their, the educational model was that they didn't have a set 
curriculum, they gave the kids choices and they got to pick from 
those choices.  
Frazer:  And so it was a real, I think, consequences you do, and then you 
have consequences of what you did and the kids seem to work with 
kids that had problems. And of course our hippy kids were— they 
were used to having more freedom and having that kind of choice, 
choosing to learn.  
Frazer:  But it worked and spread and then they started having, like Juniper 
went to Magnet Arts for fifth, sixth at Condon school and then 
Roosevelt, they had special programs but all kinds of little special 
schools started developing. So, it was another meld of the hippie 
and the gay community working together.  
Raiskin:  Well the 4J School District had a number of alternative schools as 
part of the regular school choices and people have  school choice  in 
Eugene. So, it's interesting that that came out— that we still have 
that.   
Frazer:  Oh yeah. Because it came out of that and we had nothing then and 
then it bloomed and there were several different— I mean, now 
there's a lot, I mean, I don't know because I don't have schoolkids 
anymore, but yeah. And of course, gay pride was big back then. 
Eugene Celebration, which we don't have any more, sadly.  
Frazer:  Dykes on Bikes. I was a motorcycle rider. We’d love to go to 
anything. Anybody want dykes on bikes? And let's see, one time I 
wore a coat with tails shirt, shirt and bow tie with blue jeans. 
Looked great. Looked great on the motorcycle.  
Linda: And when did you join Soromundi? 
Frazer:  So I joined Soromundi  when it started, when it was in Karm’s  
living room and we were just basically changing the words to rock 
and roll songs  to make them lesbian.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember any of those songs?  
Frazer:  Oh no, but they were probably all ‘50s stuff that we all grew up on. 
She's My Girl and whatever. Yeah. And I have stayed with the 
chorus. I dropped out a couple of times. Once I got into computers I 
was too exhausted for a while. My job was very busy.  
Frazer:  At first, it was the phones and then other responsibilities, but I kept 
coming  back and I know it's been a very good thing for me retired, 
especially having, I retired as my father went down. And so I 
never, I didn't get to start really living as a retired person freely 
until my mother died, five years later.   
Frazer:  And in that same time period, my only sibling, brother, he died a 
year after my father  and then a six months after him, my wife. And 
then my mom hung in there for a few years. And so then when I 
came home to Eugene, after being gone for five years. I had gone 
back to Soromundi  at the Twentieth anniversary and I had to quit 
when I went down to take care of my mom. 
Frazer:  It was a great thing for me to have that community because I came 
home to our home, but alone. And I was used to her being gone by 
then, but it's still different to come home to the home that you've 
lived in together and have— 
Raiskin:  So your partner died?  
Frazer:  Yeah. While we were in California. And you adjust, it's not the 
retired life. I mean, we had a retired life plan. We had thoughts and 
ideas about when I wasn't working anymore and she was disabled 
and wasn't able to  work anymore but perfectly fit  and present and 
all that.  
Frazer:  So she really wanted me not to have to work anymore, but we had 
to get there first. And I would have kept working however, even 
though she would've wanted me, I would've kept working till I 
was seventy, but I got disabled out.  
Raiskin:  Where were you working after— 
Frazer:  After I closed the shop, well, I actually went to work for the guy 
who wrote the software I was using. I went to work for an  
automotive software developer and I ran all over  Northern Cal, all 
the way up into Washington selling automotive software system to 
automotive shops.  
Frazer:  And let me tell you, I worked with some of the best men in the 
world because I worked with good people. There was a lot of shops 
out there, that got some ugly people in it and it wasn't a pleasant 
experience when it was bad. And the worst was for me was I had a 
sale that ended up not happening cause I just didn't care at that 
point.  
Frazer:  I'd gone back to my hotel after a big delivery of pitching and we're 
going to think on it. I don't like sales. See, I like you come into my 
shop cause you got your car's broken. I'll tell you what's wrong 
with it. I'll fix it. You can choose to fix it or not. But just to walk into 
your place and say and tell some old guy with a hammer, you need 
a ‘puter, you need a computer? 
Frazer:  It was a daunting world to step into from  having been working in 
the lesbian shop. And that conversation that  blew me off the wall 
was when they started talking about “sand niggers” because we 
were in the Gulf War and I just did, I went back to my hotel and I 
had a little talk.  
Frazer:  I'm like, “Really, really Christine? This is  what you have to do? You 
got to put up with people talking like this racist crap and you can't 
say anything ‘cause you're going to get a sale?" Unh-uh, not for me,  
not for me.  So I actually went to work in another automotive shop 
as a service manager.  
Frazer:  I went to for Sandpiper because John who owns Sandpiper used to 
work in the co op and he asked me to come work for him but I 
didn't like being a service manager. I liked working on cars, it was 
really boring for me. So I had my taste of computers. I took a DOS 
class, I learned a little bit about that black hole and I just looked 
around and said where's the money? And jobs were in computers.  
Frazer:  So I said, well, back to LCC and the only thing they had back then 
was computer programming. So I took computer programming 
and I learned it and could do it, but I couldn't imagine— I got to the 
last term and I'm like, "Ah, I don't think I could even do this." 
Frazer:  And thankfully Symantec came to town and hired pretty much 
everybody in my class. They hired 150 people. They came here with 
fifty and they hired 150 people, mostly from LCC and a few older 
guys who'd been in the military and had some computer—and we 
all started the Symantec  up. There were four of us on Norton 
antivirus.  
Frazer:  Yeah. And we didn't know anything. We didn't have shit. We were 
really left hanging. But I'll tell you, it was a great experience 
because we all just jumped into it. I created the first sort of 
database. I'm like, I made notes, I made notes for myself in the 
computer.  And then people are coming to me and I'm looking at 
my note and then, "I can have a copy of that note?"  
Frazer:  And then we make it stupid little note database and eventually this 
all mushrooms into big stuff. And I worked there for thirteen  years, 
became an antivirus specialist and a senior technical specialist and 
they flew me all around to lots of different places and had some fun 
with my corporate card.  You get tired of motels, hotels, even big 
fancy ones. Like, it gets old.  
Long: Was the pay good?  
Frazer:  Oh, well not at first. I made $12 an hour as a mechanic. I started at 
Symantec  at $8.45 an hour. I left there making $25 an hour plus big 
perks. I was a $60-, $65-grand package. Unfortunately, after  my 
first disc surgery, they— and them having to buy me a $5,000 chair 
to sit in, they suddenly didn't need my 110  percent  performance 
every quarter for thirteen  years anymore. Nothing personal. You 
know: half  my age for half my wage.  I made big money there 
because— I had two 14 percent  increases in my first five years and 
that was huge, huge increases because of my mechanical 
background. While I was at LCC learning about programming and 
software stuff, I took a hardware class and that cemented this  
ethereal  world of software and this crazy electronic on-and-off 
pulse recording, and it put it together for me in a way—see, I have 
to see things visually to be able to see it.  
Frazer:  I was able to see how that software translation turns into hardware, 
how the hardware stores it and then spits it back out. It's essential 
to fixing anything as understanding something about the nature of  
how it works. You don't have to know everything. You have to 
know enough to know and I got good, I got good fast.  
Raiskin:  I did you ever think about fixing hardware?  
Frazer:  I did later in life just to keep myself employed. After I got laid off 
there, I mean I worked at HP and, but you hang your own shingle 
out and I always helped friends and we fixed our— well, we built 
an antivirus lab at  Symantec  out of junk machine.  
Frazer:  And actually, we had something that nobody else anywhere in 
Symantec  outside of Santa Monica had: a full, complete library of 
all the viruses that existed at the time. A lot of which were not out 
in the wild at all. The majority of viruses at time were written by 
university professionals, as looking at what you can do. And they 
were very dangerous some of them.  
Frazer:  But we convinced them that we're like, "How do you expect us to 
support anti-virus  when we don't ever work with a virus? We work 
with people that shouldn't even have computers and we're 
supposed to clean up the virus." So we got them allow us to build a 
lab and be able to see what happens when you take an actual virus 
and infect a machine.  
Frazer:  Because, that's the key to cleaning up behind it. And eventually the 
company— Because what we did here in Eugene was really, I think 
remarkable. Four or five of us started an antivirus when I, when I 
moved out of support into other aspects of the company.   
Frazer:  At the heyday we had fifty-five Norton antivirus agents in Eugene 
and thirty-five in Toronto and I flew back and forth between the 
two places to manage and more supervise, not supervise on a 
supervisory— as technical supervisor:  “How's the operation 
running? Where are the holes?” Usually it was knowledge issues, 
not in the knowledge flow. You have to have information to fix 
things. And so we built some really great things. The Symantec  that 
was built here was phenomenal, what it would achieved. Sadly, 
when they laid me off in 19— no wait a minute, in 2005, that was 
the beginning of tremendous changes at Symantec. 
Frazer:  We weren't supposed to have a layoffs because of the merger that 
we did. And I was one of the first and only the beginning. I got 
what we called the “royal boot.” I got six months’  severance 
package, six months’  salary, six months benefits for myself, my 
partner and our child.  
Frazer:  So she had a child, Erin, my partner and she was ten when we got 
together. So I have a thirty-three-year-old second daughter. Which 
is nice. See, one of those gifts I wasn't expecting in life. 
Raiskin: Are you following the current news about hacking and viruses and 
all that. It's interesting to you?  
Frazer:  It's interesting. It's a pitiful shame. I actually I saw what's his name, 
one of our congressmen or senators talking about taking Oregon, 
making us the first state to go off of electronic voting and go back 
to paper ballot. I don't know if I agree with that, but I do because I  
did basically what they now call cyber war.  I mean viruses are real, 
but there the whole thing is bullshit.  
Frazer: That it is war and data is valuable and I mean they can shut down 
power grids, they can do all kinds of things. People who get all 
worried about their security— I mean, I've operated from a very 
long time from the man in the eye, in the sky. I just assume, I can be 
seen. It can all be seen and you want to see my one-eyed-Jack? Fine.  
Frazer:  I don't have anything to hide, I just try to, but computer security it's 
a layered thing. Good habits are the best way to protect yourself 
and yeah, it's some serious stuff. I don't know how it's going to end 
up resolving because what can be done by one can be undone by 
another. And that's where real money is now. But I'm out of the 
game. 
Raiskin: And when did you retire?  
Frazer:  At sixty-two and I'm sixty-nine  so yeah, actually I retired at sixty-
two. I actually threw the towel in six months early. I figured out 
how much money I needed for six months because you don't have 
money coming  in. There just was no jobs in computers and I would 
go to job fairs and there'd be 500 people. A huge percentage of 
everybody's over fifty and I'm pushing sixty-two. I mean, it just felt 
futile. And basically the way it looked to me was that I was back to  
where I was after cars. The only way I was going to get a job that 
wasn't standing on my feet as a Walmart greeter was going to be, 
going back to re-train and I don't have it in me.   
Frazer:  And I was disabled anyway. So I mean in that I had gimpy issues, 
the walking and my hands, a lot of problems with numbness, 
which is hard to keyboard and mouse, but I went on to a sixty-two 
year old retirement, one month later my disability claim that was 
two years old, kicked in. So they popped me off of disability and  
put me on, I mean off of retired and put me on disabled and until I 
turned sixty-five. 
Frazer:  And now I'm just back to regular old. But the good news about that 
was that it gave me, based on my earnings at that point, and it gave 
me a draw instead of what I would have earned at sixty-two, it 
gave me what I would have had at sixty-five and a nice chunk of 
two years of benefits that they pay you. Nice cash roll. 
Raiskin:  And what's your living situation now?  
Frazer:  I live alone in a house that I bought thirty years ago. I have 
achieved my retirement goals except for losing my partner. That 
wasn't planned, but, which is my advice to young people, which is 
to be out of debt. If you get your house paid off, don't be in debt, 
have a good car. I used my little inheritance from my parents to 
buy a brand new Prius. Said this last car I'm going to buy after this 
car, it's going to be carts and buses and handy carts stuff.  
Frazer:  And I don't have a high income—back to that VW Co-op. Well, we 
were hippy co-op and we were always training, especially—see we 
started out, fifty-fifty, but we ended up gravitating and becoming  
all women. I believe we were always all— I don't think any straight 
women ever came and worked with us.  
Frazer:  But lots of women thought they, I don't know, lawyer, Indian, chief 
mechanic, I'll try mechanic. And then a lot of women weren't suited 
to it. You know what I mean? Curiously enough, out of the women 
that I worked with, Nancy, Jessie and myself were the only ones 
that stayed there for years and years and all of us fathers were 
mechanics and that, I thought it was a very interesting, a sociology 
perspective.  
Frazer:  So we all, we obviously inherited a talent around ability to 
understand things. Some people were good with understanding it. 
We couldn't physically perform it well enough or could do that 
part, but they could never understand what they were doing and 
they just didn't enjoy it.  
Frazer:  You have to enjoy your work or you should anyway. I feel 
fortunate I enjoyed my work all my life and  I feel bad for the young 
people of today because nobody invests in them. But then I say, 
"Well, Christine, who invested in you? You invested in yourself." 
But when I got to Symantec, they invested in me.  
Frazer:  I brought tremendous assets to them, but they also trained me and 
expanded me or helped me to expand, I should say.  I helped the co-
op, I used my social security instead of drawing a full salary and 
letting my social security peter off, I supplemented the co-op with 
my social security earnings for, out of fifteen years—  
Long: So you contributed more than the other members? 
Frazer:  Yeah. I took less salary than the rest for our cashflow, because I had 
the social security. Yeah. What I didn't think about was that I was 
screwing myself on social security credits because they didn't give 
me credit for my widow's benefits. You know what I mean? And I 
think that's unfair of course, because as a mother, I mean, I was 
working but I  wasn't paying social security. I was using social 
security. So I hurt myself a little bit and I didn't make good money 
at Symantec till halfway through those thirteen  years. It took a little 
while before to get up there to where I was making the big bucks.  
Frazer:  I had people there with me came from money and they're like, you 
should be buying stocks. And I always got frustrated with people 
like that. Because what don't you understand about a budget, and 
about rent, food, clothing, the kids' needs? You don't always have a 
room for things like stocks and stuff.  
Frazer:  But I did later. I mean, I became a DINK—double income, no kids, 
you know, my daughter grew up and moved on and my partner at 
the time had a good job. Yeah, DINKs. Now I’m a SINTK—single 
income two kids, but they don't live at home.  
Long:  What's your relationship with lesbians in Eugene now.  
Frazer:  Well, Soromundi  is my most active point of interaction and we do a 
lot. I mean, we sing out  anywhere we can. I love what we're about, 
it gives me a sense of community and connection and we have our 
little socials. It's been a great thing for me. I also go every other  
week, I belong to the Rainbow Women's, I call it the Rainbow 
Women's Group, or dinner club. Basically we get together every 
other Saturday for dinner out somewhere. And then there's 
alternate days, Tuesdays and Thursdays you can go to a happy 
hour on River Road or up to what's that one that's off the Amazon. 
It was another place people go, I never go to that one.  
Frazer:  So basically those are the really, the two things that keep me 
connected to community now is the Rainbow Women's Group. 
And then out of that group and chorus, then there's those of us that 
go to the basketball games, those if it's like go to the softball games 
at the university, the women's sports.  
Frazer:  That's another thing I'm doing that I didn't use to do. I didn't have 
time for sports when I was a working woman. Now I'm I got 
permanent seat for basketball and for  softball. That's something 
like, yeah, I got that. I enjoy it. So, and I don't have a lover that 
doesn't like sports.  
Frazer:  Unfortunately, most of my lovers didn't like sports, so I kind of 
pushed away from watching. Now I'm like, and I enjoy watching 
my sports. I'm watching the women's national basketball playoffs 
right now.  
Raiskin:  Do you ever think about living more communally or?  
Frazer:  Absolutely.  
Raiskin:  What are your visions for that?   
Frazer:  I do. I have an idea of the house. I don't just put it out as an idea. I 
see. I'd like to join in with a group of other women or we could all 
sell our houses and invest in a community with tiny houses. They 
don't have to be teeny tiny but little houses and like where it's all 
individual. You own your lot, or whatever, I mean something. And 
then you have a central, you have a little clubhouse that pay— 
everybody pays a little dues to maintain the clubhouse to have a 
place to gather in.  
Raiskin:  Do you imagine  communal eating?  
Frazer:  Yeah. Communal eating, assisting each other with other things. 
What I see happening or, I used to say that we would all be taken 
care of by the younger lesbians, but community has changed a lot. 
It's just because I came out of commune and took that commune 
into women's community and been involved with the women's 
lands of Southern Oregon where it's collectively and communally 
type stuff.  
Frazer:  Oh, the other one thing is that I'm on the farm team for OWL  Farm, 
Oregon Women's Land Trust. So I just raised the money and we 
had the pond repaired at OWL. So, this is the shape of water and 
there is no life without water and there's no life for OWL. There's 
no future for OWL without water and the pond was in bad repair. 
And we need to see how much water that land has. So very 
exciting. Raised the money, the works  been done. We just need the 
winter to come and see how it works out.   
Frazer:  But I'm interested in, I got interested with— and I'm always 
interested in lesbian projects and I always thought OWL  was a 
wonderful thing. I had actually never been there. I've been to 
Cabbage Lane, I've been to WomanShare. I'd never been to OWL. 
During the time when OWL  was full of women living out there, I 
was busy fixing cars and then  you got a kid, you're doing kid 
things, things with the kid on the weekend. So I really, I enjoy 
being involved with OWL. Unfortunately, because of my physical 
issues, like I'm not as helpful as I wanted to be in terms of fixing 
some things around there and; pruning  trees and I can't even do 
my own. So, but I got the water project going and now what  I'm 
focusing on while you both would appreciate, which is that I am 
focused as they are too, but I have specific focuses.  Mine is with the 
farm team. Why I joined the farm team is getting it all documented, 
how the farm functions, mapping the water system as it exists now 
and then, so it can be upgraded, getting everything into electronic 
form, trying to secure OWL  so that it can be passed on because we 
are all going  pass on and we're all getting up there. I'm sixty-nine. 
Nancy is eight years older than me. She's the caretaker living out 
there off the grid. All the women involved with OWL  are older and 
we're trying to get younger women involved. It's not easy.  
Raiskin:  What's status of the gas pipeline that was supposed to go through 
OWL? 
Frazer:  Well, it's not been finally approved. They're preparing access by 
fixing the road on the backside of OWL, but that's not going  
through OWL  anymore. It was going across our top northern 
Ridge, right through our old growth, but is no longer— it's now 
supposed to go right in front of our property and cross the road 
down in front of us. So it really won't. It might be an ugly eye sore 
site from Nancy's coop, but the land's all up. It's not really going to 
have a big impact other than it will be a sad thing because it's a 
ridiculous idea. Volcanic country. But what are you going to do? 
All kinds of idiots are out there doing all kinds of idiotic things and 
they have been all of my adult life, very  frustrated about it.  
Frazer:  It's been real big deja vu flashbacks for me from the '60s. First I was 
upset with myself that I had thought people were smarter than they 
are. Then after I got over that, then I'm like just appalled at the fact 
that so many people are willing to stick their heads in the sand and, 
but then I stopped and said, “Well, the reality is that you've always 
been in the minority of the minority politically, socially in all 
ways.” So, and that's back to the first point number one, I thought 
people were really grown up and doing much better than they 
really are. Now that being said, we live in Eugene, what  I like to 
call the liberal Mecca of the West. So we have a lot of good things 
going on here, but it's sad. I watch BBC World News every  day.  
That's where I get my humility for the suffering that goes on in the 
world and keep up on a broader spectrum. And then I'll watch PBS 
News and they give a good mix and they give some positive stuff. 
Some days I just say, okay, it's okay. You  don't have to see it every 
dang day.   
Frazer:  But I feel a certain social responsibility to stay informed. Even 
though I also feel as an aging lesbian and as an aging person in my 
generation that it is  time for these young people— it is time for you 
millennials and  everybody under you. You've got to pick up the 
baton. You got to fight for your rights because people are trying to 
take them away and they've always been trying to take our rights 
away. There's always has been those ugly, nasty people try and 
take gay rights away. Now they're trying to step back even further, 
the fights aren't even really on, it's still a shadow fight.  
Frazer:  But I'm back to saying there's war going on a war between men and 
women, but it's mostly these old white men think they can control 
women who think that they are better than us and they are so 
narrow that isn't their narrow minds. It's their narrow religion 
perspectives. And they're a threat. Me, I got another twenty, 
twenty-five years, maybe of a good life. The ocean might die while  
I'm alive. I hate to see that. I'm glad my children don't want 
children. That's a sad thing to say, but I'm saying it.  
Frazer:  I'm glad my daughters are choosing not to have children because I 
don't want to have to worry about anybody else left behind my 
own issue. It's hard enough having daughters and knowing you 
can't protect them fully, but I did all right. I gave them both eyes in 
the back of their heads and enough to not be afraid and not to be a 
victim. That's about the best you can do really.  
Raiskin: Well, on a happy thought. Can you tell us, when you look back on 
your life living in the Eugene lesbian community, what would you 
say was your greatest joy?  
Frazer:  It's really easy. The greatest joy I think is the early days in this 
community when so many women were— felt so free to be out and 
alive. That contrast to what we were raised with, as growing up 
under the umbrella of being what we were, was abnormal, very 
wrong, extremely wrong to some. And having so many, even 
though it was a small number, but that fruition and then what we, 
what we did with it here, creating businesses, creating things like 
Energy Bank, working with the alternative community. I mean, we 
didn't have barriers. We would work with anybody, but we found 
kindredness  with the alternative hippie community.  And yeah, I 
mean, I think back to your question at the end, I think community 
is missing now. I think it's missing for us. Got a little too big, a little 
too spread out. I don't know. And I think as we age, we just tend to, 
it's a construct of aging that you've come more isolated.  
Frazer:  So, having been a lesbian who was in relationship predominantly, I 
was alone from eighteen  to twenty, and from twenty  up until my 
partner's death, I was in relationships, back-to-back, serial 
monogamy as we call it. Maybe a little break here and there 
depending, you know. And now I'm not and it's a whole different 
thing.  
Frazer:  Now I look at the community and I see something that people used 
to tell me about which is couple-ism is how when I go to like  
Rainbow dinner things, inevitably nobody invites the single person 
to, "Hey, why don't you come over some time?" The couples don't. 
So that's a lacking in our community that I heard people talk about 
before, but I didn't have an experience of it.  
Frazer:  I don't know. So I don't know. Aging is an issue for, I think is it's a 
real issue. We’re  the first large lesbian generation to age plus then 
we're boomers to boot. I mean, which is the largest aging 
population ever. So we don't have the answers, but I think need to 
capture that old with what the community was like back there in 
the late '70s and into the '80s. This town was a thriving, throbbing 
heart of activity, activism, hope and all kinds of stuff.  
Raiskin:  Looking back over your very rich life in community and in 
relationship, is their advice that you would give to a young person 
watching this video?  
Frazer:  A young person, a young lesbian? Anybody? Young— 
Raiskin:  Whenever you imagine.  
Frazer:  Yeah. Well, what I say to young people is, know yourself. Try to 
know yourself. Try to find work that's rewarding and meaningful. 
If you know yourself then you're going to connect with other 
people like you. If you have work that's meaningful, then you don't 
have a large chunk of your life tied up with something that's just 
misery and you're doing it for a buck and then you can build your 
life around that.   
Frazer:  That's what I see when I look at my life. Starflower, Country V-dub, 
these were great jobs, that they were hooked into great community, 
too. Then when I went into computers it was a different kind of 
community. Didn't have that same buzz and charm, didn't hold the 
same. When I left there, yes, a few people were still friends that I 
connect with, but it wasn't the same.  
Raiskin:  Is there something specific you would say to a young lesbian?  
Frazer:  I would say educate yourself on politics. Understand your 
Constitution and laws, and stand up be heard, speak out. Freedom 
isn't free and democracy isn't free. We have to fight for it. We get 
our rights because we stand up and fight for them. Lot of young 
women don't— they don't realize the work that we did.  
Frazer:  The privileges that they are free to experience that we didn't have, 
that we had to fight to make that happen for them. And I see them 
waking  up. So, that's what I say to young people. I like the new 
term “woke.” Get woke. Wake up and smell the roses, and make a 
difference. Get out there and be active.  
Frazer:  And I think that old and young need to mingle more. My mother 
loved young people. I love young people, but one of my challenges 
at OWL is how to get young people involved. And I brought in a 
friend my age because I'm like, "Eva, you know more young people 
than I do."  
Frazer:  And she's going— so we're trying. We're trying to make that 
happen. Carry on, grab the baton and carry on. Because, the fight  
will always be there. No matter what, no matter where you are, 
you're going to have to stand up for yourself. That's the most 
important thing. Stand up for yourself.  
Raiskin: Thank you so much.  
Long: Yes, thank you very much.  
Frazer:  Thank you. It was a wonderful privilege to share like this.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  