 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with  Nadia Telsey on August 27, 2018, 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries Special Collections and  University Archives and Professor 
Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, Gender and 
Sexuality Studies. Nadia, please let us know if you agree to be 
recorded for this project and that you give your permission for the 
university to preserve and make available your recorded and 
transcribed interview.  
Telsey:  Yes.   
Long:  Thank you. Let's begin with a basic question, can you tell us 
something about where you were born, and growing up?  
Telsey:  I was born in Brooklyn, in 1947. And when I was two, my parents 
moved to the suburbs. It wasn't very eventful in the suburbs.  
 I became an activist very young, which I have no idea where that 
came from. It certainly didn't come from my family. I didn't have a 
whole lot of  support at school for that. I was pretty much on my 
own with it.  
Raiskin:  What was your neighborhood like?  
Telsey:  My neighborhood? It was pretty upper middle class, and I grew up 
with very mixed messages about money. We didn't have money to 
buy a boat. We didn't have money. I really wanted riding lessons. 
We didn't have money for riding lessons. We didn't have money 
for camp. And yet, we lived in this big house. It was really 
confusing.  And as soon as I was able to work, I was working. My 
parents were not the parents who were going to buy me a car. I had 
two legs and I could use them, so I did. The neighborhood was 
down the street from the beach, and that was sort of the center of 
life, especially in the summer, was going down to the water, which 
unfortunately, is so polluted now. I don't think a kid could get into 
it, but it was great when I was a kid.  
Raiskin:  What was your high school like?   
Telsey:  My high school was pretty small. I think my class was about 120. I 
didn't think much of my high school. I had a lot of very 
conservative teachers. They were in the John Birch Society, they 
were just very conservative, as were many of my classmates.  At one 
point, I did some work for the NAACP and we brought up a 
student from Mississippi. It never occurred to me that anybody 
would think that that wasn't a good idea. And lo and behold, I 
found out that the principal was really upset and other people were 
really upset. It didn't occur to me that it wouldn't be anything but 
great.  
Raiskin:  Was the student coming up to present or to speak to the student 
body?  
Telsey:  They just came to different classes and answer questions. I did hear 
from one administrator that one student said it was the first time 
they'd ever thought of anybody besides themselves. So, that was 
great. That was great. But in general, it was a pretty isolating 
experience. I had friends, but it was— and I was very, very serious. 
I didn't play as much as I wish I had.  
Long:  Can you tell us what you thought it was about yourself that helped 
you be an activist or organize? That's pretty young to do that work.  
Telsey:  It was, well, the Civil Rights era, I mean, it was big then and it just 
seemed just. I mean, it was just wrong what was happening. I 
didn't even think about it, it just was something I felt like I needed  
to participate in trying to make better. And pretty much, I've done 
racial justice work the whole rest of my life. It started then.  
Long:  How did your family react to your activism?  
Telsey:  I think mostly they were afraid. As Jews, I think they saw a lot of 
other Jews get really hurt during the McCarthy era, along with 
many other people. And they felt like Jews were targeted a lot for 
activism, and they were terrified. I know in '63, I really wanted to 
go to the March on Washington and my parents wouldn't let me go. 
And I was furious, just absolutely furious at them.   The bargain we 
made is, I went to an American Friends Service Committee camp, 
which was very political, and met Angela Davis' sister, Fania, who 
became a friend of mine for a while. My parents were okay with 
that.  
Raiskin:  So you're living in New York, and then you decide to go to college.  
Telsey:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Long:  Well, first, what year did you graduate from high school?  
Telsey:  Sixty-five.  
Raiskin:  How did you decide to go to college and where you were going to 
go? 
Telsey:  It was just a given that I was going to go to college. My mother 
never did, but it was just a total expectation from my father. In 
terms of where I wanted to go, it was a really, really rough thing for  
me, because I was a top student. A lot— my father pressured me to 
be the best. I was very angry about it, actually, but I kept doing it. I 
couldn't seem to not do it. But I know that at my graduation, 
somebody pointed out we didn't have valedictorian, but I got the 
highest honor and somebody pointed that out to me and it's like, 
who cares?  
Raiskin:  You didn't value that? 
Telsey:  I did not value that. And in fact, the same thing with college. I 
didn't go to my college graduation. I wouldn't give my father the 
satisfaction, because I was so angry at the pressure that I had had. 
There was something you asked though about— which college.  
 In those days you applied to three schools.  The guidance 
counselor— it was all what was going to make the school look 
good. And that was  where the pressure went. I wanted to go to the 
University of Chicago. I got an early admission; my parents were 
horrified. It was too far, it was too leftist. I think it would have been 
a rough place for me. And so I ended up not even applying to 
places I  wanted to go. It was not— and I didn't have a good 
experience at college. I could have gone almost anywhere, it was 
kind of sad.  
Raiskin:  So what was college like for you?  
Long:  Where did you go?   
Telsey:  I went to Bryn Mawr for two years. I hated it. And  at that point 
also, there was more organizing around the war. And in the 
beginning, I went to— we were fasting to study the war. I 
remember I was not necessarily against the war then, but I was 
concerned enough to fast and study it. And my dorm mates put 
cookies in front of my door, things like that. Then, I transferred. I 
wanted to go to Queens College. That's where my boyfriend at the 
time went. And also, they had a good anthropology department 
and that's what I knew I wanted to study. My father wouldn't  hear 
of it, because it didn't have a big enough name. So I transferred to 
Barnard and he was okay with that. I ended up being there in '68 
when the campus was taken over. It was pretty exciting.  
Long:  What was that like?  
Telsey:  Well, I was in analysis at the time. I was really messed up. And so I 
couldn't go in any of the buildings because I had my appointments 
that we had to pay for, whether I went or not. And I organized with 
a friend, I remember we brought the Bread and Puppet Theater, 
which was a New York political theater with these huge puppets 
and we brought them to campus and we were told we had to make 
sure we guarded the bushes, that they didn't get trampled. Nobody 
showed up. I mean, it was horrible.  
 I was there the night of the bust when the police came, and it was 
pretty scary. I got over this fence. I don't know how I ever got over 
that fence to get away from the horses and the police. I've looked at 
it. I looked at it afterwards. I'm like, I have no idea. Somebody got  
me over it. I remember talking to my parents at night, and they 
could have been worse, but they were just like, “Just don't get 
arrested.” I didn't get arrested. I remember I was taken a class from 
Margaret Mead at the time and she was not sympathetic to the 
students, and I walked around with my religion in Java book, lest 
we actually have a final exam. Most of them were canceled. But 
what if we did and I wasn't studying?  That's a kind of student I 
was. I didn't really have fun because all I did was study all the 
time.  
Long:  So you graduated from Barnard?  
Telsey:  I graduated from Barnard.  
Raiskin:  Did you choose women's colleges on purpose?  
Telsey:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And what was that experience like for you to be in a women's 
colleges?  
Telsey:  Well, I was still straight at the  time. But I wanted to be around 
women and at Bryn Mawr, the motto was “Only our failures 
marry.” I was just a little too early, if I had been there three years 
later, I think everything would have opened up for me, but it 
wasn't there yet. I was just a little too soon.  I remember at Barnard 
meeting with Kate Millet and a professor named Sue Larson. And I 
remember Sue Larson saying “Nobody even knows we're  
oppressed.” And I just stood there and went, “Oh, my gosh.” I 
mean, it just exploded my mind.  
Raiskin:  Why that idea?  
Telsey:  Feminism was brand new, the women's movement was barely 
happening. And so that made sense that she said that, and I was 
like, “Yeah, you're right.”  
Raiskin:  So in New York, the activities that you did in college were 
studying. When  you graduated, what did you do?  
Telsey:  Well, I got involved.  I started teaching at Little Red Schoolhouse in 
the Village. I started training in karate. And I got in that, because I 
had a bunch of friends who were— all their boyfriends were men 
of color who were activists. They would go to Cuba, they would do 
all these things and I wasn't in their league. Although it's ironic, 
because I stayed an activist and most of them didn't.  
 But all the boyfriends were in a karate class and they tried to get 
the teacher to teach a women's class, and he said he would if they 
got twelve  women. And I was number twelve. I did it for my 
friends. I still remember the first class like it was yesterday. And 
one of the things he said is, “You'll quit this like you quit 
everything else.” And I went, yeah, that sounds about right. Only I 
didn't.  
 I was doing that. I was doing a lot of anti-war activism. The 
women's movement was new. We were dealing with a lot of  
wretched sexism in the movement. I was active with a block 
association. Got to know my neighbors. We had a lot of fun 
together. Yeah, so that's what I did in the beginning.  
Raiskin:  When did you hear about Oregon or think about coming here?  
Telsey:  I'm trying to think. I had relatives who lived in Oregon, but I didn't 
know that much about them. What I really remember is at one 
point in my karate class, which at that point was in Brooklyn;  we 
had what we called the Caravans. Twelve  women, four children 
and two dogs went off for a month or two, and we were going to 
bring karate to the masses. We were going to do a whole bunch of 
karate demonstrations. And in those days, people cheered if we got 
down on the ground to do pushups. I mean, that's where it was at. 
It's kind of amazing now, but that's where it was at.  
 And we ended up in Nova Scotia on Flo Kennedy's land. Some 
people know Florence Kennedy, who was an activist lawyer. And it 
had just been bulldozed for some— I think, I forget why.  It was this 
hideous land that we ended up on, and we met these dykes, this  
was in Nova Scotia, who had a farm called Maggie's Farm. And at 
least one of them was from Oregon. I remember, I'm not sure if 
that's where I first saw it, but there was that whole series of shirts, 
visit but don't stay and Oregonians rust, they don't tan. I forget, 
there was a whole series of them and I don't know if that's where I 
saw those. It might have been. But that's, I think, where I probably 
first thought about Oregon.   
Raiskin:  When did you come to Oregon?  
Telsey:  I came in— I think it was— I can't remember if it was '80 or '81. 
And what happened was I was teaching karate and Colleen Gregan 
and Anne Moon were two of the students and they bicycled across 
country and landed in Eugene. Actually, Moon ended up at OWL 
Farm I think. And then they were like the seed and then other 
women started coming from Brooklyn. We had this little Brooklyn, 
New York connection. And I got to know some people from 
Starflower who came to Brooklyn to visit. And Moon would come 
back and forth and we were close friends.  I didn't come for quite a 
while, I think in '79, I visited. And that was really fun. I met a 
bunch of Starflower people and hung out with a group of people.  
 And then I was ready to leave New York. And first, I went to 
Albany, New York, then I went to Boston, then my partner at the 
time—it was a  really messed up relationship—she really wanted to 
come to Oregon. I thought, great, it'll be an instant community. We 
can keep doing martial arts. Got out to Oregon. My friends left. 
One of them stayed for a year and otherwise, within two months, 
they left. I went to their goodbye parties. I got to know people 
because they had raffles to raise money for them. I bought I 
remember a Reiki session or the Shiatsu or something from Sally 
Sheklow and something from  somebody else. And so I got to know 
people in the community through that.  
Raiskin:  When did you come out? Not to Oregon, but as a lesbian.   
Telsey:  Yeah. I came out officially in— I wrote it down— ’74—I was 
twenty-eight. And there was a lot of pressure on  me from my 
karate students. They were all whispering behind my back, “Oooh, 
she's going to come out soon.” And my reaction said to that— 
people loved that. They love the attention. I hated it. I just dug my 
heels in. It's like, I am not going to give you the satisfaction of being 
talked about that way, but I did.  
Raiskin:  Was that the person you got involved with, that you came out 
with?  
Telsey:  No, there were short-term relationships first. I was single a lot, but I 
had short term relationships.  
Long:  Sorry. I was just going to ask about your process of coming out, 
how did you feel about that process? I mean, was there something 
that you recognized about yourself? Or, was it partly political?  
Telsey:  No, I was pretty in love with my best friend in high school. I was 
pretty aware of it. And actually, after I came out, we had some— 
she didn't live in New York then but I remember going to the bar 
and dancing close with her. And we didn't do more than that. But 
we acknowledged it, finally.  
 And I remember when I was married for two years. I remember 
going to a book sale and being attracted to a book about 
homosexuality. Not that there were a lot of books out then, but 
there was something that drew me there. I think I had an inkling. 
And mostly, it was just  sort of fraught with this being under a  
microscope. I just hated that. And so it wasn't as joyous as it could 
have been, I think.  
Raiskin:  What did Eugene look like to you when you first came? What were 
your impressions?  
Telsey:  Well, my very first impression coming back from the airport was it 
was ugly. I remember people said, how can you say it's ugly there? 
But it made such an impression on me. It was incredible. It was 
such a vibrant time. I had a friend who was a mechanic in 
Brooklyn, but I had never  met women who were truck drivers and 
who did everything they did at Starflower. It was just amazing to 
me. And it was a time when a lot of us weren't working super hard. 
And so we hung out a lot and just were able to have fun.  
 I'm trying to think what else. Got involved with Amazon Kung Fu.  
Raiskin:  What was Amazon Kung Fu?  
Telsey:  Amazon Kung Fu was a women's kung fu school and the teacher 
was Barbara Bones and her once upon a time partner Joyce Towne, 
I think her name was.  I think when I got there, Joyce was teaching 
Tai Chi, and wasn't involved in the school anymore. But Barbara 
was, and I already knew people who had been training and they 
would come back to Brooklyn. I would hear about their tests and 
there were conflicts  in the school. Like many people, I didn't have a 
clue how to resolve a conflict.   
 I mean, when I look back on it now, it's kind of horrifying, but we 
all did that. We did terrible things. But I did like the training, until 
the conflicts got big and then my lover and I split up and that 
infected things in the school. It was ugly and yelling matches and 
drama. Dyke drama.  
Raiskin:  When you say you look back and you cringe at the way conflict 
was dealt with, how was it dealt with?  
Telsey:  Well, there was a lot of “you”  statements, a lot of blaming. There 
were some incidents of homophobia. I remember I was among the 
more rational people, but at one point, there was a— when I 
worked at Rape Crisis Network in a little house on West Tenth, 
there was a house on the corner. I can't remember if she was 
renting it or something, but it came out she didn't want lesbians 
and she was really clear about it. And somebody went and like 
destroyed her sign or, you know,  those are the kinds of things. I 
remember feeling very adult and having a conversation with her 
about how unacceptable it was, what she had done. But still, there 
was a lot of being self-righteous and demonizing people and just, it 
was messed up.  
 But one kind of fun thing, when I visited in '79 and then moved,  my 
good friends lived in a house together on West Fourteenth. I called 
it the International House, because three of them, their last names 
were French, German and Englander, which was pretty funny. 
Although, they mostly went by other names, everybody had their 
names, Raven and Crow and Moon.   
Raiskin:  Did you have a different name?  
Telsey:  No, I never did that. And actually, you may hear this from 
somebody else, but a friend would talk about, there need to be 
urban names like Traffic and Smog and things like that. Everybody 
was so into that.  
Raiskin:  So it sounds like you were having fun. When you first came, lots of 
different organizations.  
Telsey:  I was having fun.  
Raiskin:  What would a day look like? What was a day like for you when 
you first came?  
Telsey: In the summer, I remember that Moon was in charge of feeding 
Joyce Towne's goats. And so we'd get on bicycles and go to where 
the goats were and feed the goats. And we went swimming a lot at 
Lookout Point, I think it's called, and I had a dog at that point and 
it was difficult. And my friends didn't realize that he would run 
away at the drop of a hat, and they threw him in the back of a 
pickup truck and went off swimming and the dog disappeared. 
They got him back.  
 I got a job pretty quickly. So, the fun times were, that August, 
beginning of September, and then I got a job.  
Long:  What was your work?   
Telsey:  I worked for the Community Health and Education Center, CHEC, 
which was a health center. And then there was a project under that 
called the Wellness Project. And that's where I encountered some 
pretty shocking homophobia. At one point, the clinic wasn't doing 
very well and so we came up with the idea of having a women's 
clinic once a week or once a month or something. And other folks 
on the  staff who were friends, I thought, were very opposed to the 
idea, because they thought it would just attract lesbians and 
everybody would be having sex in the waiting room. I remember 
there was one other lesbian on the staff with me and we just 
couldn't believe that that's what they would come up with. It was 
horrifying.  
Raiskin:  And you wonder what kind of healthcare lesbians were getting at 
that time.  
Telsey:  Yeah.  
Long:  Where was it located?  
Telsey:  There was a house on West Broadway?  Tenth?  Our original office— 
we were in different buildings. The clinic was in one place the 
Wellness Project was in another, and the admin. And there's a little 
place on Lawrence, it's Lawrence and Thirteenth and it's like an L 
shaped building.  I remember being there once  late, and this guy in 
the building was having a nervous breakdown and he came and 
challenged us about destroying his furniture or something and he 
had a gun. I was from New York, people didn't have guns that you  
knew about. I just couldn't believe it. I had come here to be 
threatened with a gun. He didn't point it at me. He had it in a 
shoulder holster, but he was leaning over.  And then we moved to 
the same house that Rape Crisis Network eventually moved to on 
West Tenth, which was also the house that my friends lived in and 
where Moon's daughter Nilda, where she went into labor. Nilda 
was born in the hospital, but that was where they lived when Nilda 
was born.  
Raiskin:  So did you work with the Rape Crisis Center?  
Telsey:  Yeah. When my job ended, because Reagan cut all the funding, I 
left and went to Montana for a month or two. I had a lot of friends 
in Montana, but it was the recession. There was no jobs anywhere. I 
think I worked in a daycare center for a little while. And then this 
job opened up at Rape Crisis Network for an outreach coordinator. 
And that's what I had done in Brooklyn. That was my work. It was 
part-time for seven months, but it was enough to get me back to 
Eugene.  
 And then I later became the director. We were originally in the 
YWCA building and then we moved to Lincoln School. What was 
the principal's office, and then we moved to the house on Tenth. 
Raiskin:  And what was working at the Rape Crisis Center like, why did you 
want to do that and what was the climate at the time?  
Telsey:  I wanted to do it because that was the work I'd always done. In 
New York, I was in a group.  We were among the first people to talk  
about rape at all. I remember we had a little handout, “Rape Is...” 
Nobody talked about it or knew. “Sexual harassment” hadn't  been 
coined yet. It was that and the outreach because the outreach was 
where my heart was, working with different communities. And it 
was tricky. The very first year, there was a sheriff's deputy accused 
of finding young people who were making out, sending the boys 
home, driving the girls home and being somewhat inappropriate 
with them, and he was black. This was like the last thing I wanted 
to walk into.  But I felt like we had to be principled about it. And we 
needed to also keep in mind rape and racism and what had been 
done to the black community with charges of rape. Our guess was 
at other sheriff's deputies had done the same thing, which gave him 
the idea that he could do it, only not so easily.  
 And I did make some good connections with people in the black 
community. It was scary, but we made some good connections and 
we were able to talk about it. When I became director of Rape Crisis 
Network, it was a great group and we had a lot of fun in addition 
to all the hard work. I tend to get very emotional, so I could not 
work with people who had been assaulted, because I would start 
crying. So I was pretty useless at that. I think the other thing that 
really impacted my effectiveness was that I came out of a culture of 
collectives. There were never leaders. There were not directors. 
And my staff expected leadership and wanted me to meet with 
them and give them work lists, and I didn't  have a clue how to do 
that. I don't think I was particularly effective. I think a lot of people 
liked me, but I didn't really know how to be a director.   
Raiskin:  Was it affiliated with the University of Oregon at that time?  
Telsey:  We got money. We got me money. But other than that, I don't think 
we were affiliated. I do remember when Safe Ride got started, and 
were very down on it. And the women— 
Raiskin: Why don't you describe what it was?  
Telsey:  Safe Ride was a project where there would be some vans that 
would drive women around at night. Women could call in and get 
rides for safety and we felt like we shouldn't have to do that. And it 
was giving in. I don't remember, we got on our high horse and I 
think some of the women on campus were pretty devastated by our 
rejection of the project. I came around. Saw its value, but not at the 
moment.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember that Safe Run project with the Doberman 
Pinchers?  
Telsey:  Yes, I do.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe that?  
Telsey:  There was a woman in town who— her father, I think, was in the 
military and trained dogs. And so the idea was that the dogs were 
trained to defend, and you could rent the dog for an hour. She was 
pretty awful to the dogs and she was pretty unstable, as it turned 
out. After a while, I kind of separated from that. But in the 
beginning, I was supportive.   
Raiskin:  And the idea was that women could run or camp by themselves. 
And these huge dogs would protect them.  
Telsey:  Yeah, these Dobermans. Yeah. It was a great idea. It was a great 
idea, but it wasn't executed very well.  
Raiskin:  So how long were you with the Rape Crisis Center?  
Telsey:  Let's see. My first stint with them was '82 to '83. And then I became 
director in '84 maybe, and I left— my mother died in '87 and I left 
soon after that. Although I stayed in touch; I don't know if I was on 
the board, but I stayed pretty connected to them  for quite a while.  
Raiskin:  After that, did you get involved with the self-defense project?  
Telsey:  I was teaching self-defense from  the minute I got to Eugene. I 
mean, it's what I had been doing forever in New York. It was so 
much part of who I was. And  so I worked with a woman named 
Jackie Turle and another woman whose name I can't remember, 
Kathy somebody. And then I was doing it through the Wellness 
Project, we did a series of workshops and some of them were self-
defense workshops.  I spoke through the Women's Information 
Network program at Sacred Heart. I taught classes in the 
community at Sacred Heart, and just— 
Raiskin:  The hospital.  
Telsey:  Yeah, we just used their basement building with all these gurneys 
around, it was really attractive. I'm trying to think. I just taught a 
lot of self-defense.   
Raiskin:  Well, you had a particular angle on self-defense. You want to talk 
about that?  
Telsey:  So, I found out really early that knowing how to defend yourself 
physically, and being able to use self-defense were not the same 
thing. If there was a situation with a stranger, and it was an 
obvious assault, it was actually easier. But we were told, speak up 
at the first sign of trouble. Well, that sounds great. And then there's 
something that doesn't feel right, but it's not obvious. And we're 
taught not to be rude, not to be suspicious, not to blame somebody, 
to look for all kinds of reasons why: They're from another culture. 
They're just lonely. All these explanations for why they were 
behaving inappropriately. And we didn't have a clue how to set a 
boundary and how to defend a boundary, or that we deserved to be 
safe. Because we were supposed to take care of everybody else's 
feelings. And they didn't care about ours, but that didn't matter.  
 A lot of what I did was what I call self-defense from the inside out. 
A lot of my teaching was not physical, although some of it was, for 
sure. I had a book, Self-Defense from  the Inside Out  workbook. I think 
I wrote that in '88. It's still around now. A friend of mine is 
reworking it a little bit.  
 I was active with people in Amazon Kung Fu, we went to 
PAWMA, which was Pacific Association of Women Martial Artists. 
They had camps and I was still part of a group:  I had co-founded 
the National Women's Martial Arts Federation and they had camps 
every year and I still went to those. And we started creating  
empowerment self-defense, which was based on some of this  
thinking, which is now international.  
Long:  When you said self-defense from the inside out, is that the 
empowerment?  
Telsey:  That was what I called my work— was really looking at all the 
things that get in our way. And also, another part of that was that 
we were damned if we do and damned if we didn't, so we were 
supposed to speak up, but if we spoke up, we were called bitches. 
And if we didn't speak up, then people said, “Well, why didn't you 
speak up?” “Well, why did you go with that person?” “Why did 
you trust them?” “Why did you invite them in?” And so, the 
amount of victimization was just compounded. And that was 
something that we felt like we had to address.  
Raiskin:  I remember you gave presentations at the university in classes and 
then taught your own classes through the university. Can you 
describe that a little bit?  
Telsey:  Sure. I was teaching in the community a lot, and I wanted to teach 
on campus, but I was told they already had self-defense. And then 
there was a group, was it the Unwanted  Sexual Behavior Task 
Force, I think, who put together some money under this program 
called Search, which brought community members into teach 
classes. And they got me to teach a class in 1989. And then after 
that, they cobbled money together, and the class was through the  
Office of Public Safety at that time. I taught the first couple of years, 
the rooms we had were dorm— what  do you call them?  
Raiskin: Lounges?  
Telsey:  Lounges. And we actually had a lot of conflict in one of them. I 
can't remember the name of the building—Riley Hall—on West 
Eleventh. That was where I did my sample class and then were my 
first other official classes were held. And so it meant that for the 
duration of the class  people in the dorm could not cut through that 
room that we were in. And so we started getting hate messages by 
women as well as men, on the bulletin board in the room. We tried 
to do role plays out in the courtyard and we would have a row of 
students. The men pretending to jerk off above us. And then one of 
the guys who worked to manage the dorms  called me up and 
accused us of— he said that students had said we had stolen a 
bicycle. He didn't meet with me and say, “This is something 
somebody said, could we talk about it?” He just immediately 
assumed that that was true and accused me. I'm a faculty member, 
albeit pretty minor, but I'm a faculty member, of stealing a bicycle. 
It was horrible. It was really frustrating.  
Raiskin:  I remember your classes always filled to capacity and there was a 
waiting list. And what do you think the young women were— why 
they were connecting so well with your classes?  
Telsey:  I think I gave them permission. I gave them permission to be who 
they were and to feel what they were feeling, and then to give them  
tools for how to do that. I don't know if you know that Jocelyn 
Hollander is researching people who took the class. Now, it's pretty 
wonderful. Some of the things that they're saying about how it 
changed people's lives. Yeah, it was really satisfying work.  
Raiskin:  How long did you do that?  
Telsey:  Seventeen  years at the university.  
Raiskin:  How did you how did your class change over time or your 
relationship with the students or your understanding of their 
experiences change? Seventeen  years is a long time.  
Telsey:  Well, the class kept  evolving the more I taught it, the more it 
changed. When I first started teaching in Eugene I was doing a lot 
of karate with a few other things mixed in. And then over time, it 
just became much more about understanding the internal part and 
a lot of role plays and a lot of other kinds of exercises and breaking 
down barriers for women to be together. For a lot of women, 
coming to these classes in the community or on campus, was the 
first time they had been with all women. I mean, so that alone was 
mind blowing to some of the students. In the beginning, I 
remember that I didn't come out, but then there was a lot of 
speculating. And so I finally— it was pretty early, because I think I 
was still in a dorm lounge. I remember saying, “All right, yes, I'm a 
lesbian.” And I think that made it a lot safer for other lesbians in 
the class. Otherwise, my understanding of the students I don't 
think changed very much.   
 My teaching came from my own life, from my own experience and 
what I needed. And even though over time I kept thinking, this is 
changing, it wasn't changing. It still hasn't changed. It seems like it 
would have by now, but it wasn't.  And we got in a lot of— I 
remember we rocked the boat a bunch. There was somebody at the 
Honors College, this guy who was harassing a lot of women. I kept 
hearing stories, every single term I would hear stories, women 
stopped using the Honors College library. Finally we put an ad in 
the school paper, the Emerald, have you been approached by this 
guy?  
Raiskin:  By name?  
Telsey: We didn't know his name, or we didn't use this name. But if you've 
been approached by this guy, please come forward. And we put up 
notices in bathrooms and we did that about some other people on 
campus who had the same story they used with every woman, and 
we got trashed by other women for doing this. It was 
disheartening, in terms of the guy at the Honors College, 
eventually something happened. But mostly, what we were told is 
he doesn't have good social skills, you need to be patient, you need 
to be kind. All the messages that were exactly what I was trying to 
deal with.  
Raiskin:  Why were women opposed to your message? What did they say?  
Telsey:  My whole life doing this work, there were women who allied with 
men, and were outraged at a woman who would call men on their  
bad behavior. Some men, on their bad behavior. I taught a self-
defense class at Barnard College and some women went after me 
there, that I wasn't being nice enough to the men, because I was 
talking about them raping women. I got that when I started 
teaching a women's class at my karate school in New York. There 
were women who allied with the men and started trashing the 
class, saying  we didn't take karate seriously, we didn't— whatever. 
Because they wanted to make sure that the men knew that they 
were on their side. And we had conflict sometimes about use of 
space. And what I was trying to say to them is, we're not trying to 
teach a men's class and failing, we're doing it our way. We're doing 
it in a feminist way. So that wasn't always understood.  
Raiskin:  And so what else were you doing in Eugene at this time?  
Telsey:  Let's see. I was doing anti-racism work, still. I worked with the 
Oregon Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Violence for many 
years, and I was on their anti-racism committee, but I also just was 
on their board. And then— I can't remember what year we had 
LIC, which was Lesbians In Coalition Against Racism and Anti-
Semitism.  
 So, one of the things that happened to me coming to Oregon was, I 
was from New York City. Now, where I grew up, there weren't that 
many Jews, but in New York City there were. A lot of my friends 
were Jews. I didn't really think about it. I landed here, and I started 
hearing anti-Semitism from people I thought were my allies. And it 
was really horrifying and depressing.  And then we started LIC and  
we felt like we needed to do workshops on anti-Semitism, and I 
didn't know much. I educated myself first. And then we did this 
whole long day through the lesbian community on anti-Semitism. 
And then after that, I think LIC— pretty much after that didn't keep 
going, but I kept doing the workshops here and there.  
Raiskin:  Were you part of Baleboostehs? 
Telsey: I was just going to say, the other thing was Baleboostehs, which 
started out before were Baleboostehs, we just got together. And I 
remember we talked a lot about the Middle East. And then we had 
these big, huge community Seders. We did a couple of them.  There 
were probably eighty  women there. And then we started having 
just more of our own. So yeah, there was Baleboostehs  for about ten 
years, I guess, we existed.  
Raiskin:  How many people would you say were in Baleboostehs? 
Telsey:  You'd probably get different numbers from everyone you ask. I 
was going to say in the beginning it was maybe twelve. But then it 
got big and that was when the problems started.  
Long:  What kind of problems?  
Telsey:  Well, there was one problem where there was a wedding and not 
everybody was invited, but most people were invited, so the people 
who weren't invited, very understandably felt really upset and then 
to make it worse, at one of the meetings, somebody brought 
pictures of everything from the wedding. It was really insensitive,  
to my mind, and it was very hurtful. There was conflict starting 
there. I think we just got too big.  
Raiskin:  Were you part of the Seder that was at the Hilton?  
Telsey:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  You want to talk about that or maybe talk about the measures, 
because that has something to do with that, too. 
Telsey:  The Oregon Citizens Alliance had a series of horrible ballot 
measures. And I know there was a Measure 8, which passed in 
Springfield. I think that was the one in Springfield and then people 
were boycotting everything in Springfield for a long time. And 
there was Measure 13 and Measure 9. I can't remember, it was 
probably around Measure 9, which was a really horrible 
experience. We did a freedom Seder and Ellen Rifkin and I wrote 
the Haggadah for that. And I remember Diane's mother, my 
partner's mother was visiting and she came, she had never been to 
a Seder, she was blind. I was sort of being very— really thinking 
about what it was like for her. And it was pretty amazing. But the 
other thing I remember is the food was insulting. It was so horrible. 
I think Sally or whoever was working on this had met with the 
people at the Hilton and gone over all the recipes, and it was 
almost inedible. I kind of didn't know what to make of that. I 
wasn't sure if it  was— 
Long:  Do you think it was deliberate?   
Telsey:  I don't know if it was just really pathetic or they just didn't care or I 
didn't know, but it made a big  impression on me. It was bad. The 
whole ballot measure time was— I got really depressed, I couldn't  
sleep. A lot of us were so upset. I remember I used to go to this gas 
station. It was these two old guys and this little gas station. I always 
like to support small business. I said to them once, I need to know, 
where do you stand on this? And they told me they were in favor. 
And I said, I can't come here anymore. I remember being in— I just 
drove away in tears.  
Long:  What was their reaction?  
Telsey:  They were kind of begging me to not leave, they needed my 
business. And they were oh, no, no, no. And it was like, I can't do 
this. I could cry now, it was so painful that whole time, just the split 
everywhere that you went and trying to figure out who was who, 
and knowing that people could support something so absolutely 
hideous.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember the language of Measure 9 that they were 
supporting?  
Telsey:  Well, I know they equated us with necrophiliacs, animal abuse, 
child molestation, so, pedophilia, necrophilia. There might have 
been one other one, but I think the language of the Measure was 
that no money should be used to support anything that had to do 
with homosexuality. I'm not sure where that other stuff came in, I 
don't know if that was actually in the Measure. Or, if it was just  
what they talked about. I remember them putting out literature 
talking about gay men fucking with hamsters in their anuses.  It was 
just— 
Raiskin:  It was allowed in the ballot.  
Telsey:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  The voters pamphlet. The language was that homosexuality was 
perverse, wrong.  
Telsey:  Right. Something, yeah. 
Raiskin:  These were the people that you thought were friends who were 
supporting this measure, as you went around to a gas station and— 
Telsey:  I didn't really think they were friends. I don't think I knew of any 
friends who were supporting it. But, yeah, it was horrible time.  
Long:  Had you thought about leaving if it passed?  
Telsey:  No, I didn't.  
Raiskin:  And what kinds of work did you do against the measure?  
Telsey:  I remember being on a committee. Honestly, I can't even remember 
what all we did. I know we were really active. I remember one of 
the people on the committee was straight, and I assumed that he 
was gay. It didn't occur to me that a straight person would be 
willing to put this much time in. I don't remember all of what we 
did.   
Raiskin:  Can you talk about that Dialogue Project that you were involved 
with?  
Telsey:  It was after the Measure was defeated, and a woman named Gayle 
Landt got in touch with me and said she wanted to put together a 
dialogue of people on both sides of the issue. And I think I said 
something like, “You're out of your mind. I wouldn't sit down with 
those blah, blah, blah people, like forget it.” And she left but Gayle 
is very persistent and it was probably almost a year later that she 
approached me again. And I said, yes. I think there were twelve  
people in it. I remember the very first meeting, we met once a week 
for dinner and a dialogue, and then we went to two weekend 
retreats. They took us by van to some ranch in southern Oregon, so 
we couldn't escape.  
Raiskin:  Who's the we? Who was in this group?  
Telsey:  I actually have a list of all the names, but the people that I 
remember, Gretchen Miller was in the group, Scott— his name just 
fled my brain. There were people that I didn't know who were 
parents of gays or someone who was just very sympathetic. There 
were people on the other side, two OCA members came the first 
night, one of them realized really fast, Ralf Walters, that he wasn't 
going to be able to manipulate Gayle. So he quit. But this woman— 
this guy, Larry Schanz, stayed the whole time.  
 And the first night I remember I didn't know who was who, where 
do I sit? Like, what side of the room do I sit on? I don't know. Are  
you a good guy or a bad guy? And it was a pretty amazing 
experience. I had my moments. I slammed out one time, “I've had 
enough. I am not listening to this garbage one more minute. I'm not 
going to that retreat.” Blah, blah, blah. And Gayle was like, okay, 
you don't have to come to the retreat. I went to the retreat.  
 I had some private mini-dialogues with people. There was one guy 
I got very close to, he was head of the Evangelical Association. But 
he was worried about my soul as a Jew and lesbian. I remember 
meeting with him at his house and saying, “You know what, it's 
none of your business if I go to hell, it's my business. So just back 
off.” And he did. He also was involved with one of those groups 
that tried to de-gay gay people. And I was furious about that. Just 
absolutely furious.  
 One of the retreats, one of the men who I have also come to be very 
fond of— he would spend his nights studying the Bible and coming 
up with why the Bible was okay with homosexuality. He is a 
fascinating guy. But he said he thought that the whole campaign 
was kind of amusing. You heard the tears that were there not long 
ago. It was not amusing to me and I started crying and I couldn't 
stop. I just couldn't stop. I was sobbing, it just uncorked the bottle.  
 And when I was done, I looked up and I don't know, some of this is 
maybe supposed to be confidential. I don't know how much I can 
share. But one of the men was standing there with tears just rolling 
down his face, just in horror at the damage and the pain that he had 
helped cause. And I appreciated his struggle. He believed in the  
Bible and he was trying to reconcile with this. He was struggling. A 
few of them were struggling, not the OCA member.  
 Down to the very last day, when we were going to deliver our 
statement of agreements, he backed out. And I remember the 
Christian people in the group being furious and we were like, well, 
this is what we've been dealing with. Now, you're getting a taste of 
it. He accused them of being duped and he wrote an op ed piece, 
accusing them of being used, it was pathetic.  
 But I maintained friendships for quite a while with some of those 
folks. I actually have a picture of me with the head of the 
Evangelical Association, John Koekkoek. I was supposed to meet 
him in Hendricks Park, and somebody from the Register-Guard  was 
going to do a story.  
 Right before that, I was meeting with my self-defense facilitators. 
And one of them was a lesbian and her family who had once been 
hippies and then were born again, and they told her that she was 
kicked out of the family and she was to have no contact with her 
younger brother who she  adored. I had just come from that 
meeting. I went to meet John Koekkoek and this photographer and 
we were supposed to show what good friends we were and I was 
so mad that we had to like take a whole bunch of time for me to 
calm down. I had to talk to John  about how this felt, and how I was 
with this before we could go ahead with the interview.   
Long:  I think it's worthwhile for the record to state with the Dialogue 
Project intended to do.  
Telsey:  It was called a public interest negotiation. It was based on  a 
particular model that had been used with— I know Armenians and 
Azerbaijanis, that they had brought people together. It was based 
on certain principles, which I can only remember some of, but one 
is, we all live in this community together. And unless we annihilate 
each other, I think about this a lot today, we're here in this 
community together. And the means  are the ends in the making. 
How we deal with conflict and how we deal with each other is 
what we're going to get. Oh gosh, there are other ones that I know 
really well, but I— 
Raiskin:  Was it set up as an equivalency? Like if you're going to annihilate 
each other, but one side is not trying to annihilate the other side.  
Telsey:  I know, but if we can't resolve this conflict and learn to be in the 
community together, what are we going to do? Are we going to 
like, just create two societies where we absolutely don't interact? It's 
so timely, right? And that if you're in a workplace, you can't just 
throw the other people out of the workplace. I mean, we have to 
learn how we're going to be together. And there was a lot of 
emphasis on dialogue versus debate. And  one of the founding 
principles— you're not trying to convince the other side, don't let 
go of your most closely held values. Don't let go of them.   
 And of course, people did, when they were given that direction 
that they didn't have to. People started to change. It was a 
profound experience for me, because as much as they had attitudes 
about who lesbians and gays were, never mind  the rest of the 
alphabet, LGBTQI. But I had my attitudes about who conservative 
Christians were. To me they were all Jimmy Swaggart, and the 
televangelists. And so I had my own attitudes. And it was great to 
have a chance to get to know each other.  
Long:  It's seems remarkable that the anti-gay people would be willing to 
even have that kind of dialogue, because part of what they were 
about was to not understand somebody.  
Telsey:  But I don't think that's true. And that's one of the things I learned. It 
is true of the Oregon Citizens Alliance and Larry Schanz stayed 
being a jerk the whole time, and was completely not open and 
would talk about how oppressed he was as a Christian and  blah, 
blah, blah. But the other people didn't know.  
 One of the things that set me off was when one guy said, “I did not 
realize that gays and lesbians are people who could have integrity.” 
I was furious. That was one of the times I was like, “I'm done!”  
Slammed out.  “I don't need to listen to this anymore!” But they saw 
what the media put on and that was their view of the community. 
They learned a lot about us too.  
 And the statement of agreements was all these things that we had 
in common, that we agreed on, that we wanted for the community,  
and we wanted for children. So it was pretty fabulous. And it 
wasn't just our group. Gayle had put together a whole advisory 
committee that was watching us and was very invested in how we 
did. We knew that this  mattered to the bigger community. And that 
was a lot of motivation to stay there, when we didn't want to.  
Long:  How was that project funded?  
Telsey:  I don't know. I don't know how Gayle did it.  
Raiskin:  And how was it publicized afterwards, what you accomplished or 
did?  
Telsey:  There were a bunch of articles written about it. John Koekkoek and 
I went out and spoke together on the radio and different places. 
Probably other people did, too. There was a big— the night that we 
had the statement of agreements,  it was a big deal. I don't know if it 
was on television or what, but it was a big event, a fairly big event.  
 She did other similar things after that, that weren't quite as 
successful on different topics. But I learned a lot. I learned a lot 
about dialogue and listening. And there were certain words that we 
could list up that we didn't want to hear used. And so that took the 
sting out for both sides. She was a really good facilitator.  
Raiskin:  Were you able to use your skills later in your political work?  
Telsey:  I feel like I use them all the time. I really— I took them to national 
trainings that I did and talked to people about them. And the  
dialogue versus debate is such a useful document. I've taken that 
lots of places. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And how about your personal life? Who were you involved with? 
And what kind of family household were you making at the time?  
Telsey:  In New York, I was often single. When I moved to Eugene, I had 
this horrible relationship, and all the neighbors could hear it, as we 
were  screaming at each other. We didn't have good skills.  
 And then I got involved with Harriet Rubin for about five and a 
half years. And we didn't live together; she was in Corvallis a lot of 
the time and I would commute up to Corvallis once a week. I lived  
with various— sometimes alone, sometimes with different 
roommates. I lived for a while with Peri Sneyd, who died of an 
overdose and that was really traumatic. I really loved her and it 
was very painful and awful.  And had other roommates, a woman 
named Wendi who is eighteen  years younger than me. We're still 
very close. She lives in San Francisco. And we were roommates for 
a while and then I was trying to remember all my houses, trying to 
remember which order they were in, to try to remember different 
things that happened.  
 I finally moved into a house, near Lina and Rakar, and I lived there 
alone. And then I got involved with Diane DePaolis in 1988, it was 
a really rough beginning. And she was seeing a bunch of other 
people, she had just gotten out of a long term relationship, and I 
would go to her house and find messages on her answering  
machine. “I had a great time last night,” or flowers on her table, like 
this didn't do well for me. I was like, “I understand you need to 
play and that's fine and contact  me when you're done, because it's 
fine, but I can't do it. So, see you later.” And then we decided we 
would talk about when we were going steady and so we did that. 
And we lived separately for four and a half years. And then when 
my father died, I moved in with her, very abruptly.  
Raiskin:  And did you do domestic partnership or get married or what were 
your feelings about that?  
Telsey:  Yeah, we had multiple ones. There was the time that the city did, 
on Valentine's Day, did a little domestic partnership thing that 
didn't matter, legally, but it was so sweet. And Diane had to leave 
court to come to that. That was really sweet. We got married at one 
of the Marches on Washington, and I didn't take it seriously 
enough. Diane was very upset with me. They are very nice 
pictures. It looks like I was taking it seriously.  
 And then we got married. There was the '94, there was a time that 
David Fidanque got Multnomah County to issue marriage licenses, 
which wasn't going to work legally.  And  Diane was visiting her 
parents and we decided to get married. And so we threw together 
this wedding. She was mostly out of town. I was really busy. It was 
kind of crazy. The crowd kept growing and growing. A lot of 
people were there, just because it was a thing, not because they 
were our good friends.   
 Some of my best friends weren't even around, because it was so 
quickly put together, but we did it at the Hilton and it was fun. My 
niece flew in from the East Coast and I remember we walked down 
the aisle to All You Need Is Love. That was really sweet. It was really 
fun. And then it got annulled, free of charge. And then I guess that 
was it until there was the real one or am I  missing one? There might 
be one more in there. I'm not sure.  
Raiskin:  And did you play with Samba  Ja? 
Telsey: That was much later. Yeah, I had a bad back. So, for decades, that 
kind of was my definition of myself. And it meant that I gave up 
river rafting, which I had done with the lesbian community and 
cross country skiing and all my martial arts. I couldn't even do Tai 
Chi, I had to give up everything. I was desperate to find something 
I could do. I heard Samba  Ja which just lit me up. And they said, 
“Oh, anybody can join.” And it looked easy. There were no notes. 
You just hit a thing.  
Raiskin:  Describe what it is. 
Telsey:  It's a Brazilian percussion band and they wore wild costumes. It's 
Mardi Gras type music, just street music from Brazil. And I had to 
pick an instrument that I could do with my back. So there were 
only a couple of possibilities. So I picked this two-tone bell. It didn't 
look hard. You just hit this thing with a stick. Aye-yai-yai-yai-aye. I 
didn't have a clue what I was doing.   
 And somebody said my very first rehearsal, I looked like a  deer in 
headlights. I was just— I had no idea what was going on. I worked 
so hard at that. And somebody in the band told me that I was the 
poster child for perseverance. The bandleader told me I was 
musically schizophrenic, which was not exactly helpful. And it just 
made me dig in again, like I'm not leaving. You're not getting away 
with this. You said anyone can be in this band. I'm in the band.  
 I had a great time. I had never been a partier. Although I did spend 
time at the Riv  Room, which was the lesbian bar and planned my 
classes around women's night to make sure I could get there. But I 
never did the club scene or anything like that. And so playing 
music for those kinds of events, I got to do it vicariously. It was fun. 
But then I spending all this time with people that I wasn't really 
close to. It was very time consuming. And after about seven years 
or something, I let it go.  
Raiskin:  You do perseverance in things you do, they go on for a long time.  
Telsey:  Yeah. It is true. Even though my karate teacher said you'll quit this 
like everything else. He was wrong.  
 I was also really involved with Mother Kali’s and we did events 
there for International Women's Day. We did like a series of 
different talks.  
Raiskin: The feminist bookstore?   
Telsey:  Yeah, the feminist bookstore and all the different moves that it 
made. And at one point, I remember trying, Mother Kali’s  was 
trying to move into the Farmers Market place, where Allann Bros. 
and Down to Earth are, and being told that it was the wrong energy 
for the building. So, we just kept meeting up with this over and 
over again.  And then there was a lot of conflict at Mother Kali’s. 
Raiskin:  We haven't heard about that. Could you talk about that?  
Telsey:  It was ugly, and it was personal. It was after Izzie died. And it was 
hideous, really, really hideous. Another period of time of not 
sleeping and just trying to be helpful and useful. I don't know that I 
was— so, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you think if Izzie had been alive, it could have been averted?  
Telsey:  I do. I do.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe your relationship with Izzie Harbaugh?  
Telsey:  I loved Izzie. I remember she was twenty  years older than me and 
my plan and hope had been that when she turned sixty  and I 
turned forty, we would have a 100-year party, which didn't 
happen. When I turned forty, is when my mother died and it didn't 
happen.  I just loved her dearly. She was incredible. She was so 
strong in her convictions. I remember at the last bookstore, maybe 
not the last one, the one on Thirteenth, she had Jane who was like a, 
I don't know, eight foot woman, naked woman.  
Long:  The red statue?   
Telsey:  The red statue of Jane. And we had some dialogues. As a result of 
the dialogue group, there were further dialogues, and there were 
some about the Promise Keepers and they were some about— I 
remember having them in Mother Kali’s  and I remember Jane being 
there like  “Whoa!”  And I don't know if I would have had the nerve 
that Izzie had. And then somebody said, “What is your concept of 
God?” And she talked about one of her chickens. I loved that about 
her. I just loved that about her.  
 The other thing I remember is that Kate Clinton, the comedian used 
to come town a lot. And she did a lot of menstruation jokes and 
Izzie was furious about it. Because she was past that, then. And she 
was just tired of hearing it and she was tired of the ageism. And 
then I remember one other time that Kate Clinton came, she said, 
“All right, I'm going to tell a menstruation joke. It's going to be  the 
last one, I'm at the end.” Or something like that. “You won't have to 
hear this much longer.” Did Izzie get to her? Did she actually hear 
her? I don't know.  
Long:  She was a small person, wasn't she? Izzie? 
Telsey:  Sort of. She wasn't big. I don't know. I don't think of her as really 
small.  
Long:  Slight.  
Raiskin:  Wiry.  
Long:  Wiry.   
Telsey:  I don't think of her that way, but maybe.  
Raiskin:  What are your thoughts about the changes in the lesbian 
community over time in Eugene?  
Telsey:  Well, the community kind of fell apart in a lot of ways. I think some 
was the times, and some was that people got paired up and they 
started nesting. They were having children. The institutions were 
gone, the Wild Iris restaurant was gone, Starflower, which was 
such an amazing and powerful part of the community was gone. 
Home Fried Truck Stop, which wasn’t lesbian, but a lot of people 
hung out there.  There were just so many places. There used to be 
dances, we were doing country two-step for a while. That was big, 
and then that kind of died out. But then there was a lesbian 
ballroom dance class that went on for years, but they were just 
much smaller things than there had been previously.  
 And the bar scene, this was sort of interesting. The Riv  closed. And 
then people went to Perry's on Pearl Street, downstairs. And at one 
point, Perry's became more and more straight, because the music 
was good, and they would do one little thing each night. It was a 
poem or some statement about gays and lesbians, but we were  
angry. So we started going to the bar. I remember one action that 
we took was, we were going to ask all the straight women to dance. 
Well, I don't dance. I mean, I dance more now, but I really did not 
dance then, except ballroom dance or give me steps and  I was fine. 
And so I remember going up to this woman and asking her to 
dance and she said yes. I had to get up and dance with her. Of  
course, the owners kind of needed the business, so they really kind 
of wanted the people there, but we were furious because it was 
becoming a straight bar. I think one of my friends got really drunk 
one night and started accosting people waiting to get in on the 
stairs, asking them their sexuality. It wasn't good. Anyway, that 
was the end of that protest.  
Raiskin:  What do you think about aging in Eugene and whether lesbian 
community is there for that process?  
Telsey:  What?  
Raiskin:  Whether the lesbian community is there for that process?  
Telsey:  I think mostly we just talked about someday we need to— because 
what's going to  happen to us? But nobody was really doing much 
about it. I'm trying to think what else about the community. A lot 
of people left over time, left and came back, or just left. And then 
the younger people stopped identifying as much as— It wasn't 
important to them anymore. And that was hard. It was kind of sad 
to see, it was harder to connect with them sometimes. There were 
things we could connect about, but there's a lot we couldn't. 
Although the film festival on campus, the Queer Film Festival was 
good, because it did bring generations together and it was 
specifically queer.  But yeah,  it just ceased being a central— a thing.  
And  also when you take away some of the opposition, things 
change.  
Raiskin:  What do you imagine for yourself as you age in Eugene?   
Telsey: I don't know. I should think about it more, because I don't have 
children. I think about that. Diane says she's never moving from the 
house; I'm going to take her out feet first. She's a formidable person 
when she has an opinion. I would probably be willing to leave. I 
would love to live in a co-housing community or something, but it's 
not going to happen. I have friends in Portland who talked about 
for years, about what they were going to do. They were going to 
buy fourplexes and move in together and they didn't do that. But 
they did end up living on the same block and creating communities 
like that. Here, I haven't done that. It is kind of a scary thought. My 
own life is a little less lesbian centered, and I miss some of that. But 
Diane had a lot of straight friends and they became like our family, 
and I became close to them. I started spending more and more time 
with them. I certainly have lesbian friends, but they're— now, also 
though, I do walk with a group. It's about 80  percent  gay men, and 
they had a movie night that they— and I would go to that. And 
they walk every week and then go on— 
Raiskin:  Are they the Talkie Walkies?  
Telsey:  The Talkie Walkies. I had no men in my life. And so that was— it's 
been good, but it's sort of ironic, because I spend a lot of time with 
them. And they're not really— some of them are close friends, but 
most of them are not. So it's a little strange, but it's so structured, 
because it seems like there's been efforts to have lesbian walking 
groups or hiking groups, and none of them ever quite took off.   
 The gay men's community is very organized. I had no idea. I didn't 
know any men except— it was interesting, my first year in Eugene, 
when I was working at the Rape Crisis Network, and people saw 
us as crazy feminists and I think I was called a strident feminist in 
some newspaper article, a badge of honor. The only group that 
really embraced us and gave us money was the Emerald Empire, 
the drag queens. They were the ones who were there for us, it was 
pretty interesting.  
Raiskin:  When you look back, can you identify what was your greatest joy 
living here?  
Telsey:  I think my greatest joys— I feel like I landed in the right place. I just 
feel like the lesbian community at that point in my life was just 
what I needed. I grew a lot, seeing these women doing these 
extraordinary things. I got a lot of support for my work around 
sexual violence. I feel like the political— despite the fact that there's 
a very strong conservative part of Eugene as well as Oregon, there 
is a very progressive part. And it felt safe and like a place that— 
there was a lot of creativity, people trying different things.  And so 
it felt like in terms of pursuing the work that I'd always done about 
racism or just justice, in general, it was  a great place for me to be. I 
love the outdoors, even though my back kind of put a wrench in a 
lot of that, but there was still a lot of that I did with people and did 
with the lesbian community that was really fun. There were a lot of 
fun parties, a lot of dress up for Halloween.   
 I came into being Jewish more when I moved here. And so 
Baleboostehs  was important and the Seders and doing stuff for 
different holidays, Purim. And that was wonderful for me, and 
really affirming. The Temple could not be a better place, in terms of 
being accepting. It had to go through its changes over time, but got 
to the right place. So I feel really lucky. I miss the diversity of the 
East. I miss some of my friends still, but I wouldn't go back.  
Raiskin:  What would you tell— advice from your long life of experience? A 
young person watching this, what advice would you give them for 
their life?  
Telsey:  It seems so trite to just say be yourself and embrace yourself and 
figure out— but that's it. I mean, figure out who you are, and be the 
best of that you can possibly be. For so many years around sexual 
violence, people told me what my experiences were, and so that 
was sort of one entrance into really coming to just embrace who I 
really am and what I really believe. At one point in my life, people 
could say, blame me for things and convince me of anything and I 
would believe it. I had to do a lot of work on myself to come to a 
place where I trusted myself more. And then for me, but it's not 
true for everybody, but I was able to find work that mattered and 
that fed my soul, and where I felt like I was contributing something 
and not everyone gets to do that. It's a privilege. I feel really glad 
that I was able to do that. So if you can do that, do that.  
Raiskin:  Is there anything else we haven't asked you about, that—  
Telsey:  There's lots of little things, but I think those are the main things. 
Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Thank you so much for sharing.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Telsey:  Thank you. Thank you so much for doing this.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  