DePaolis:  You would what?  
Raiskin:  I would tell you.  
DePaolis:  Oh, I thought you said I would  date you. That would be fun.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
DePaolis:  Okay.  
Raiskin:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Diane DePaolis, on July 24, 2018 
taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ recording studio 
in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long Curator of Manuscripts in the UO 
Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives and  
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's, 
Gender and Sexuality Studies. Diane, please let us know if you 
agree to be recorded for this project and that you give your 
permission for the university to preserve and make available your 
recorded and transcribed interview.  
DePaolis:  Yes, to both questions.  
Raiskin:  Thank you. Okay. Well, let's just start off with a basic question. Can 
you tell us where you were born, where you grew up, and 
something about your early background?  
DePaolis:  Okay. Well, I'm sixty-nine. I was born in  1949 in Danbury, 
Connecticut, where both of my parents were from. All four of my 
grandparents were Italian immigrants in the early part of the 
twentieth  century, and they were in the East coast and then they all 
ended up in Danbury, but I never really lived in Danbury. My dad 
was in the  air force and so we moved around a fair amount. We 
lived in Arizona, Ohio. We lived in three years in England. And 
then we lived in Southern California and then I went away to 
college. I had an older brother, three years older than me. He died 
twenty-five years ago from AIDS. He was also gay, so my parents 
were too tough on me. And I went to Stanford University  and then 
I came to Oregon in 1972 to go to the University of Oregon Law 
School.  
Long: When did you graduate from Stanford?   
DePaolis:  I graduated  from Stanford in 1971. So, I got there right after the 
Summer of Love and was very happy to be in the Bay area during 
that time. And then I was pretty sick of the traffic and had 
discovered Oregon, fell in love with it and the Law School was 
really affordable. They didn't have out of state tuition then and so it 
was pretty easy to decide to come here.  
Raiskin:  Did you know anything about a lesbian community in Eugene? 
DePaolis:  I didn't know I was a lesbian in 1972. Well, I had a few vague 
suspicions that I was pretty seriously stuffing because I didn't want 
that to be true. Had a lot of self-esteem issues growing up. I was 
overweight a lot. And I just, being a lesbian did not seem a very 
good idea. And so I didn't really know that, so no, I didn't know 
anything. But I started figuring that out over the next few years. 
And so I came out both to myself first and I came out in 1976 which 
was the year I graduated. I took a year off in law school because I 
really hated law school and I didn't see the point. But I was in the 
VISTA  program and I worked in a little legal aid office in rural 
Eastern Washington. And I did see the point in terms of helping 
people and putting facts together with the law and trying to solve 
problems. Then I went back to law school and  it made  a lot more 
sense to me. I graduated in 1976 and then took a job with Lane 
County Legal Aid and worked there for ten years and then I went 
into private practice.  
Long:  Okay. Would you mind going back and explaining the VISTA  
program?   
DePaolis:  VISTA, folks now would know the AmeriCorps program, it stood 
for Volunteers In Service To America. So, you got paid a pittance 
and you were assigned to various and sundry community-related 
projects. There was a lot of community organizing. But that's a lot 
of the smaller legal aid offices all around the country. And legal aid 
was a much bigger program then because it had been part of the 
whole war on poverty thing. So a lot of the rural legal aid offices 
where they would have one, they would be staffed by VISTAs, 
either lawyers or, I worked as a paralegal that year because I was 
still a law student. And even I was even a VISTA  second year, my 
first year working at Lane County Legal Aid, which was a bigger 
program, but it was a way for them to have a lawyer who they 
didn't have to pay much for. But you didn't make much money. It 
was a couple hundred dollars a month. I was on food stamps when 
I was a VISTA. But then after that first year at Lane County Legal 
Aid, I said, "Okay, now I want a salary." Still wasn't a whole ton of 
money, it was a lot more than $250 a month.  
Raiskin:  What made you go into law in the first place?  
DePaolis:  Well, when I was in high school, I was smart and I was articulate 
and I was a good debater and so people— and I was interested in 
politics. So, people said, "Oh, you should be a lawyer." And I didn't 
know more about what lawyers did than Perry Mason, a show I 
had grown  up on. But, then I went to college and stopped being an 
overachiever and had a good time and got a good education in 
spite of myself. And then all of a sudden I was done with college. I  
was like, "Oh, I forgot to  think ahead." I didn't know what I wanted 
to do. I majored in psychology, which I was fascinated by, but the 
trend in psychology studies shifted while I was in college. I used to 
pick up pocket money by being a volunteer subject for graduate 
students’ experiments. The first two years I thought they were 
fascinating. There were  experiments about alpha waves. There 
were experiments about other biofeedback. There was an 
experiment where they tried to trick you into thinking you had 
electrocuted a rat. There was a hypnosis experiments. I thought 
those were really interesting. But my junior and senior years, all the 
experiments were about learning a theory, which I thought was at 
least the experiments I was doing were the most abstract, boring, 
horrible things. I was like, "This is grad school? I'm not going to 
grad school in psychology." So, that was out and I went, looked 
around and went, "Whoa, I don't actually know what to do with 
myself. Well, what about law school?" And I was idealistic. I ended 
up in law school and then I looked around law school. I'm like, 
"Yuck, this is awful. All these people, well not all of them, but a lot 
of them are kind of argumentative jerks and I don't understand 
how this works and what this case law—" I just realized I didn't 
really understand what lawyers did. I arranged to take a leave of 
absence for a year, which they didn't really want to give me. 
Nobody was doing externships at that point. There wasn't a lot of 
focus on practical lawyering. I had one instructor or professor, my 
first year, Dominic Vetri, who was the only professor I had who 
gave any thought at all to just practical aspects like having us  
interview each other about a car accident we had been in just to 
think about what that is about to interview a client, and those kinds 
of things. I did think I'm going to do this VISTA  year and see what 
lawyers do on a day to day basis. And so my father was convinced 
that I would never go back to law school. And I said, "Well, I 
haven't made that decision yet, so okay, you can think that." But I 
went off to VISTA. I lived in Omak, Washington.  
Long: Where's that?  
DePaolis:  It's in Eastern Washington. Just the other side of the Cascades on 
Highway 97, about fifty miles from the Canadian border. It had a 
traffic light. It was the only traffic light in a 100 mile radius. It's 
about three hours from Spokane. It was very, is right on the edge of 
the Colville Indian reservation, which is a large Native  American 
reservation. There where chief Joseph was buried when they 
wouldn't let him go back to the Wallowas. And so we had a lot of 
Native American clients, us because they had a legal services type 
lawyer but they didn't do any family law because it was  often two 
members of the tribes.  
 I spent a year there as a paralegal and learned about the whole idea 
of acquiring the facts that the client brings and what their problem 
is and then looking up the law or figuring out how the law can help 
them if it can or what it can do for them. And then trying to solve 
the problem and that turned out that that was the approach I 
needed. So we did a lot of landlord/tenant, a lot of public benefits,  
welfare turn downs, foods, that kind of thing. Some social security 
and a lot of family law.  
Long: And you said that was '76?  
DePaolis:  No, that was when I graduated. The VISTA  year was '73 to '74.  
Long: Okay.  
DePaolis:  Then I went back to, so I started with the class of lawyers that 
graduated in 1975 but I was a year, I graduated in 1976.  
Long: Okay. So you came back to Eugene to continue law school.  
DePaolis:  Yes. 
Long: In that process of coming back, was there something that happened 
at that time that made you come to terms with your sexuality?  
DePaolis:  Well, there was a, something of an awakening, but really one of the 
things that happened, one of maybe the biggest momentous things 
was the summer of 1975 I got a job as a law clerk at the United 
States  Attorney's office in Portland. And the U.S. attorney at that 
time was a terrific guy named Sidney Lezak. And one day I went 
out to lunch with one of the other law clerks that kind of I liked. 
She was really nice and friendly and we just went out to have lunch 
and we got talking obviously. And she told me she was a lesbian 
and I was just like, "Really? Tell me more." It's just like somebody 
plugged in an electric cord. And so that was the  beginning of the 
beginning. I went back to my third year of law  school and I don't  
know if everybody, all the women there had the same experience or 
what, but it just seemed all of a sudden the idea of lesbianism was 
awake and alive.  
Raiskin: Did you see that on campus?  
DePaolis:  I saw it at the law school.  
Raiskin: The law school.  
DePaolis:  I saw it. I didn't really have much to do with the U of O campus 
other than just the law school. And we were in the old building 
over, well right down the street here on Kincaid. But it's just there 
were other people, there was another woman who had started in 
my class who also took a year off and was down in San Francisco 
and I don't even know what she was doing down there, but she 
came back an  avowed lesbian and there was another woman,  that 
over the following summer— Well, that was an interesting story. 
Her name was Sarah and she was one of the most beautiful women 
I've ever seen in my life. She was just striking and she had a 
boyfriend and then over the following— well I guess it was that 
summer. I don't remember the detail. I  know that at some point she 
decided to shave her head during the summer. She came back and 
she had a boyfriend. She came back to law school with this shaped 
head and she was still one of the most beautiful women you'd ever 
see in your entire life. But her boyfriend freaked out. And not long 
after that it became apparent that she was a lesbian. And I was still 
figuring things out for that whole first term. But the two women  
who were already lesbians had already figured me out. And one 
day she came over to me in the coffee break room and just sat 
down on my lap and I was just like, "Oh my God." You're just, it's 
like, "Oh, okay." It was pretty funny.  
Raiskin: Can you remember how your feelings were like as you were 
figuring this out?  
DePaolis:  Well, I was scared. Fear was what had kept me from figuring it out 
a lot earlier, but I started to be more and more aware. It's super 
excited. Just  like— and embarrassed. When she sat down on my lap 
and I thought I was going to die. And then I came out, I started a 
relationship with someone that actually I was with for a number of 
years. And but I remember the day after we first slept together, 
walking around simultaneously, I couldn't wipe the smile off my 
face. It was— what it felt  like, this is what it really, what it felt like. 
And it struck me at the time— It felt like the missing piece of the 
jigsaw puzzle that made the rest of my life make sense. I just like, 
"Oh, okay, now I get it." And I'd look back at high school and I'd 
look back at college and I'd look back  at these intense romantic 
friendships that I had and I just went, "I get it." Yeah. It was just an 
unbelievable feeling of just becoming whole, becoming myself. So, 
the next morning after we had spent the night together, I walked 
around with this grin I could not wipe off my face and the 
simultaneous feeling that I had an L branded on my forehead and 
that everybody knew. It was pretty funny, really in retrospect. 
But—  
Raiskin: Well you concerned  at all about your chosen profession—being a 
lesbian and a lawyer? 
DePaolis:  Well, I didn't really think about that so much. When I started the 
job at Lane County Legal Aid, because that's when the real world 
comes in. And when I started that job, I didn't even know if I'd 
passed the bar yet. But I had made a conscious decision. My 
partner and I had moved in together at the beginning of the 
summer and I was nervous about that because it was a new 
relationship. We'd only been together about four or five months, 
three months, I don't know. And I was studying for the bar exam 
and so all I could think of was all, please let's not have some big 
breakup tonight before the bar exam.  
 I started the job at Legal Aid and I had made a decision that I 
wasn't going to come out to anyone there because I didn't want that 
to be the first thing they knew about me. On the theory that if that 
was the first thing they knew about me, they would never be able 
to get past that or it would color everything else. I thought, I want 
them to get to know me as a person first. And then after they've 
decided they like me and I'm a good lawyer or whatever, they 
decide, then eventually I will be out to them and then they can 
factor that into whatever else.  
Raiskin: So, you were out at  work at Legal Aid.  
DePaolis:  Eventually. Yeah. After a while. I came out, let me remember. I 
remember coming out to my boss at a point when, I can't tell, I  
worked there ten years, I don't remember exactly what year this 
was, but there was a bill in the state legislature on a gay rights bill, 
so it could have been '77 or seventy something. They don't meet 
every year.  
Raiskin: So, was it amendment 51?  
DePaolis:  I have no idea what the number of it was, but it was in the 
legislature to I think maybe ban employment discrimination or 
something. I don't remember. But I remember that I was thinking 
about testifying or writing a letter and I decided I needed to tell my 
boss who was this lovely man. It was nerve-wracking. I just telling 
my friends after I came out was like, “Hope this is going to be 
okay." Part of the reason I felt I needed to tell my boss was we'd 
had a weird thing happen at the office where one of the 
receptionists got a DUI, and somebody anonymously called the 
office to rat her out. And I'm thinking, "What do they care? She's a 
receptionist. She answers  the phone." It was weird.  I thought, "I'm 
going to tell him." And I told him, I said, "There's something I need 
to tell you because I don't want you to hear it from somebody else 
and whatever." So I told him. And that's one of those out of body 
experiences, when you're telling an authority figure? You feel like 
you're over on the wall watching yourself and you feel you're just 
completely outside of your body. Like, "Okay, I am a lesbian." And 
he just looked at me with this credibly indulgent fatherly smile and 
just said, "Oh, Diane." And that was that.  I don't know if anybody 
there cared, they certainly didn't make it obvious.   
Raiskin: Did you talk to your brother?  
DePaolis:  Well, my brother is a really interesting story. In hindsight, I know 
that my brother started having gay sexual experiences when he was 
in high school, when he was going to a boarding school, when we 
lived in England. And also that he was very badly bullied there. 
And he had been a fat kid too, but he lost a lot of weight. And then 
we came to southern California. He was just this skinny, handsome 
guy and a junior in high school. And so he had friends and he 
dated some and blah, blah, blah. And he went to Berkeley. And 
again, in hindsight, I know that in Berkeley, it was this, if you went 
to college in 1964. He was in Berkeley and then living in San 
Francisco in the '60's and the '70's and the early '80's and doing 
what a lot of gay men were doing. And I didn't really get it then. I 
was pretty naïve. He lived in the Castro. I went to visit him once 
and I was early, he was coming home from work and I was too 
early, so there was a bar. So I thought, "Oh, this is cool. I'll just drop 
into this bar." And I drop into this bar. And I'm sitting there. And 
after a while I realized everyone in the bar is a man. And after a 
while I'm realizing they're all looking at me, wondering what I'm 
doing there. And I thought, "Oh, Hmm." But I still didn't really put 
together my brother. Because you're, I don't know a lot of people.  
Raiskin: Is he older or younger than you?  
DePaolis:  He's three years older.  
Raiskin: Three years older. Okay.   
DePaolis:  In any case, when I came out my parents and my brother came to 
my law school graduation in June of 1976. And I— in a private 
moment, told my brother and then I said, by that time I was 
suspicious of him. And so I said, "Tom," his name was Tom, "I've 
kind of wondered if you might be gay, too." And he just went, 
"Who? Me? No, Nope, no way." And so I went, "Okay.” And the 
following Christmas I was down in San Francisco, stopped in, visit, 
stayed with him, visiting him and then he and I were going to drive 
to southern California to spend some time with our parents. And 
he was super tense and acting pretty crazy. And being a big 
primadonna, which he could do some time. It was just weird. He 
had some friends over and one of his friends took me aside in the 
kitchen and said, "Tom wants me to tell you that he is gay and he 
can't bring himself to say it himself." And I said, "Why did he deny 
it?" And he said, "He's too freaked out." And this guy said to him, 
but when he told us that you were gay, I said, "What? Are you 
crazy? She's your ally." And he was just so freaked out about it. But 
we drove down to southern California and had this incredible 
conversation. And  so we were allies completely. But I think it was 
really, it's a combination of the self-esteem issues, all the 
homophobia, the internalized homophobia. And I think I came to 
think that it was easier for women in some ways because we had 
feminism. So we had a philosophical structure we could fit into. 
And the men had amyl nitrate and bars. And years later he told me 
that he had always thought, believed that just men were just fun. 
You had sex, blah, blah. He was a party animal and then someday  
he would just  find the right woman and fall in love and he would 
just magically have a regular normal life. And I think he finally 
understood that that wasn't going to happen. But I'm thinking he— 
Long:  When did he die?  
DePaolis:  He died in 1992 just a couple of years before they started having 
some of the drugs for AIDS.  
Raiskin: Did he visit you here in Eugene?  
DePaolis:  He did a couple of times. And he visited me here in the end of 1991 
when he was starting to get sick and he stayed for a few months 
and he really liked it here. And he was talking saying, "I ought to 
move here." And he was looked at a house and he just, but then he 
started to get really sick. And so that was out of the question.  
Raiskin:  Was he able to get help here from Acorn house or HIV Alliance?  
DePaolis:  While he was here?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
DePaolis:  No, he didn't. He was just starting to get sick, just starting to really 
have some symptoms. And so he went back, he lived in San Diego 
at that point. And so he went back there and then he started getting 
pretty sick. And then he was dead less than a year later. But there's, 
I'm not going to call it a happy ending exactly. But last year it was 
the twenty-fifth anniversary of his death and I've always donated 
to HIV Alliance just because they're the local folks. And so when I  
made a larger donation, because it was the twenty-fifth 
anniversary, and then my wife and I were over meeting with the 
director and the development people and they were thanking us 
and showing us around the new facility and they had some quilts 
up on the wall and they weren't AIDS program quilts. They were 
smaller, but a little bit like that. And this is, well, may not be 
exactly the story you're collecting for the lesbian history project. But  
a few years after he died, our niece came to visit us for all, she was 
in college and she did a college thing where you're supposed to do 
one of those short semesters and have a project. And so she came to 
Eugene and stayed with us and did that a couple of times and she 
said, "I'd to make an AIDS quilt panel for your brother. How would 
you feel about  that?" And she'd never met him. And I said, "I think 
that would be terrific. I actually have some ideas." And so I did the 
design and she put it all together and I was never able to send it in.  
Raiskin:  Why?  
DePaolis:  I don't know exactly why I just couldn't do it. I was just frozen on 
it. But I kept it and I knew exactly where it was. And when I saw 
those panels at HIV Alliance, Renee at one point said, "We'd like to 
do something to honor your brother." And she and I had talked 
about, maybe we'll put a bench in the garden or something. And I 
said, "How would you feel about displaying an AIDS quilt panel 
that never made it to the AIDS quilt?" And they were thrilled. And 
so that's where it's hanging now. That made me feel really good.   
Long: Can you tell us about your experiences living in the lesbian 
community in Eugene?  
DePaolis:  Okay. I came out in 1976, I was still in law school. I didn't really, 
know, hardly any lesbians. Just a couple. In fact, my partner then, 
her name was Mary Ann  and we met a woman maybe that summer 
that, she's passed away now, and some other people may have 
mentioned her, because she was a pretty big figure, eventually. Her 
name was Laurie  McClain. She was a financial adviser, socially 
responsible. We met her because she  was dating this other woman 
that we knew that was in the law school. So we met her and 
thought she was an old time experienced lesbian, really knew her 
way around and blah blah. Years later I found out that she was 
brand new, didn't know what she was doing and she met us and 
thought we were these long time, knew what we were doing kind 
of people. There was a certain amount of that stuff going on where 
people didn't really know what the hell they were doing. And were 
figuring out the culture and I know my partner and I started, we 
were just, we were readers. We read everything we could find and 
get our hands on. And that was Gay American History, a book I've 
mentioned to you before, which was just unbelievable because 
everyone so hungry, so starved to learn things. And then all the 
murder mysteries. And there were reissues of some of the pulp 
stuff and there were, there was just all this stuff available to read. 
And so we'd just haunt the bookstore and just read everything. 
And then when the first little tiny glimpses of media stuff like a 
movie or an episode of some TV show that would have something  
in it, that was just everybody had to know that, see that everything. 
And I've often wondered why somebody doesn't put together a 
collection of sitcoms from the 1980s that we're, each one would 
have an episode. I remember the one on “Kate and Allie” really 
vividly, but then there was just always one here, one there, one 
there one there. Somebody should really put a compilation of all 
those together. There was a sneak preview of a movie that came to 
town, I think it was called Making Love. It was about two men and 
nobody had ever even heard of it. But somehow the word got out 
that it was gay themed. And so we went down there. There were 
eight people in the audience and it was all lesbians and gay men. 
We knew and I'm sure the theater is going, "What did we book?  
Why did they dump this on us?" It was that kind of just hunger, 
need to know. Just wanting to know history and connections and 
all of that other stuff. And I was super interested in the history and 
the historical stuff and I read a lot of things about that.  
Long: I remember. It was so exciting when the, what's it called? The Ellen 
show? Ellen DeGeneres sitcom and then she came out and the 
episode— 
DePaolis:  Yes. That was pretty fun.  
Raiskin:  And the show was canceled I guess. Because of— 
DePaolis:  Well they did it for a while with her as an out lesbian and it just, I 
don't know if it wasn't working or the tension wasn't there 
anymore. There's so many, sitcoms run on a certain amount of  
tension. It's interesting. I used to watch these sitcoms when I was in 
high school and stuff and there was always this, they'd have the 
male lead and a female lead and they weren't together yet. And 
there was this romantic tension. In the movies, once the romantic 
tension is resolved, movie is over. So you don't have to worry about 
what happens next and who gets mad because somebody's didn't 
dry the dishes. But in the television show they would finally, with 
all this pressure, all this romantic tension, then they'd finally get 
them together and then they'd try to do another year of the show 
where they were a couple and it didn't work. It didn't work. 
Because being in a relationship is really different from than playing 
that little flirty game where you “will she, won't she.” 
Raiskin: You mentioned the bookstore, you're referring to a Mother Kali's 
bookstore?  
DePaolis:  I think so. In earlier incar— when I first went to Mother Kali's 
bookstore, it was on Blair Boulevard. In this little hole in the wall.  
Raiskin: Could you describe  the bookstore and where it sat culturally for the 
community? 
DePaolis:  Well, where it sat physically was in a quirky rundown part of town, 
although that's the trendy neighborhood now that I actually  live in. 
But, and it was tiny. And, I remember the first few times going, it 
was this paranoia about parking in front of it. Things in Eugene 
were different then. And it was a lot more paranoia and the 
paranoia people feel a lot of other places, but  less so here now, but  
at the time you just kind of— And then there were all these degrees 
of being out. So, who you're out to, and that whole coming out 
process happens over and over and over again. So you, not exactly 
skulk into the bookstore, but there was this sense of who might 
actually be watching. And then finally it was like, "Well dammit, I 
don't care." But it was a huge cultural center. That was where you 
could get the books, you didn’t have the internet, you weren't 
going to order everything from anything you wanted from 
Amazon or even find it at Barnes and Noble half the time. But, you 
have a lot more accessibility now, but of course you don't have as 
much stuff in a lot of ways. The niche  has really changed. But at the 
time it was really exploded. And  yeah, that was just the thing, that 
and the bar.  
Raiskin: Did they have cultural events at the bookstore? Or groups?  
DePaolis:  I vaguely remember some readings and such, but I don't have real 
strong memories about that.  
Raiskin: So tell us about the bar.  
DePaolis:  The bar was the Riviera Room, which was also a complete dive. 
And I had somebody at one point told me history about that, how 
the gays had moved around and weren't wanted when they went 
to the Riv Room. And the owner there was okay with that. But  that 
was really a center of activity, whether you drank or not, but, just 
going down there, who's there, who you going to run into? And so 
it was just something you did every weekend it seemed. It wasn't a  
real big thing for my partner and I the first  couple of years. But 
then we made a friend for whom it was a real big thing. And so 
then we just got into going there a lot and I learned how to play a 
lot better pool than  I used to know how to play. You just went, 
danced, played pool, drank, drank too much or didn't, but, it just 
was a really big thing. And that's another thing that's really 
changed is those cultural centers and Mother Kali’s  had morphed  
into different locations and was a really big thing, but just 
eventually not sustainable. And  the Riviera went away. There was 
been a couple of other gay bars and mixed bars. But it's never really 
been the same kind of culture. Things change.  
Raiskin: What about softball?  
DePaolis:  Softball. I started playing on a city league team in probably maybe 
1977. I still play. That team that my partner and I started playing on 
was some other lawyers that we knew, was all straight women. But 
eventually over the years it morphed into an all lesbian team, 
which was sort of funny.  
Long:  What was the name of the team?  
DePaolis:  Well, it had a bunch of names because we’d have sponsors. We had 
this lawyer who had some business connections and so we'd have 
some of her client would sponsor us. We'd had a bunch of different 
names and it wasn't— there was  an iconic lesbian team that I'm 
sure some people will tell you about, Peralandra. And this wasn't 
the iconic lesbian  team, but it eventually all the players on the team  
were pretty much, maybe not all, but almost all were lesbians and 
that went along for years with assorted names. Until it finally 
folded, I don't know, five or six years ago and things just died 
down and I found another team to play on. I'm still playing.  
Raiskin: What's your position? 
DePaolis:  I pitch. Slow pitch. Only now I'll have to armor up too because I 
don't need any line drives in the knee.  
Long:  You must follow the UO  softball team.  
DePaolis:  I have season tickets. Yeah they've really been really fun. Yeah. 
That was another iconic thing was sports. The women's basketball 
team was  this huge deal that the lesbian sort of discovered because 
my partner and I, the first women's basketball games we went to 
were played in the basement at Gerlinger  in front of about fifty 
people and we might've been the only people in the stands that 
weren't parents or friends of the players. And then Bev Smith came 
to town and a lot of people started going to games.  
Raiskin: Tell us who's Bev Smith?  
DePaolis:  Bev Smith is the best basketball player the University of Oregon has 
ever had and one of the best players in the history of the game. And 
she was early on, they didn't even, weren't even in the, the Oregon 
women weren't even part of the NCAA at that point. It was a whole 
different league for women's sports. And she was just incredibly all 
around good. And eventually later became the coach of the team  
for a while, but she was— every  dyke  in town was drooling their  
socks off over her. She was just really cute. She's eighteen, nineteen, 
twenty  and everything and she's pretty shy. But she was really, 
really good.  
 I'll tell you a funny story though, sort of about Bev Smith, but not 
really. Mary Ann  and I had a next door neighbor and she had, out 
of all the dykes in Eugene who have crushes on Bev Smith, this 
woman had a crush the size of Texas. She was just beside herself. 
Mary Ann  and I went away camping one summer, we were up in 
Canada and Bev Smith was from Canada and we were just kind of 
wandering around finding places to camp and here and there and 
all of a sudden we looked at the map and realized that we were 
only fifty miles from Salmon Arm, which is this tiny little town that 
Bev Smith was from. And so we cooked up, we both had a 
prankster minds. We cooked up this idea and we drove to Salmon 
Arm and bought a postcard of Salmon Arm and addressed it to our 
neighbor and wrote on like it was from Bev. And it was an 
innocuous  postcard was just like, "Hey Gail, just want you to know 
it's just been so great seeing you up in the stands and I really 
appreciate you  coming to the games and looking forward to next 
year. Your friend Bev." And mailed it to her.  
 And we came home and she said, well she went out, she had a 
mailbox and she went out to the mailbox and we got her. It was 
maybe only for a second and a half, but she was like, "Oh, Oh!" It 
can't be  right. That was super fun.   
Raiskin: Did you ever tell Bev?  
DePaolis:  I did tell Bev once. I don't think she thought it was as funny as I do 
because she's buttoned down and she's a really nice person, but she 
had some political fundraiser at her home. This  was, I don't even 
remember when this was, but my wife and I were there and at one 
point I  said, "I've got to tell you this  story." I just said, and she just 
looked embarrassed. But I still thought it was hilarious. I thought it 
was one of the funniest things I ever did.  
Long: How did you get to know her?  
DePaolis:  Who?  
Long: Bev.  
DePaolis:  Oh, we just sort of were told about this fundraiser. I didn't really 
know her. We've never socialized or anything. We were told about 
this fundraiser for a political candidate who is going to be there 
with somebody we supported. So we thought, "Oh, that'd be 
interesting. Let's go see where she lives." She was this iconic figure. 
I don't think she wanted to be, I think she's very private. But, it was 
just, we went to this thing and then we were all just sitting around 
afterwards. But I think I embarrassed her.  
Raiskin: Well she stayed in Eugene after her coaching.  
DePaolis:  Yeah. She likes it here, I'm sure. And she's done a really good job, I 
think with Kidsports  and she's a really been a really good figure for 
that.   
Raiskin:  So, can you describe for us what a typical weekend would be like?  
DePaolis:  When?  
Raiskin:  Say late '70's, early '80's.  
DePaolis:  Late '70's, okay. Well, in town we almost always would go to the 
Riv, at least one night. I'd just go have a drink, see who was there, 
and leave again. There were, I'm trying to remember in the '70's 
because later, I think this was maybe in the late '80's and early '90's. 
There were some women's dances that would get put on when 
there wasn't a bar really anymore. But you could dance at the Riv. 
That was if you wanted to dance. There was that. Well, this isn't a 
typical weekend, but my partner then, and I used to have an 
anniversary party every year. We started having that a few years in 
and then it became this community event. We would invite maybe 
a 100 people and we'd have at least 200. It was a big party. It was a 
thing. In fact, my wife now told me once that she was miffed that  
she was never invited. And I said, "I didn't know you, I would 
have." But she said she used to hear  about it from other people. I 
guess it was kind of  a big thing.  
Long:  One thing I'm curious about is to know more about just in general 
what Eugene was like back in the late '70's and early '80's. Because 
there were not very many restaurants. How many movie theaters 
were in town? Was there a shopping center yet?  
DePaolis:  Well, when I came here in '72 Valley River center was real new. 
Maybe it had been built in '70 or '71. It was really new and that was  
when the downtown retail started dying. They were putting in, for 
a long time in downtown Eugene there was this central mall that 
you couldn't drive through and they had put in, they'd made a lot 
of the streets one way and they'd blocked off and the whole central 
area, now where Kesey square is, was a mall that you couldn't 
drive through. There was a big, there was  a big concrete fountain 
there. It was really ugly. People called it the tank trap.  
Long: So it was a pedestrian mall?  
DePaolis:  It was a pedestrian mall, but there were stores still downtown. 
Sears was across the street from where the bus station is now. JC 
Penney's was over where there's Charnelton, maybe in Broadway, 
that area. There were some other big, there was at least one other 
big department store downtown. I can't remember which one. 
There was an athletic supply and sporting goods store. Luby's—it's 
a guy who  used to play minor league baseball who opened that 
store. And so downtown had been the retail center. When I came in  
1972, they were still putting in parts of the mall. Now where the, I 
can't remember what the parking garage is that's on Willamette 
between Seventh and Eighth, but that was still an old retail block.  
 In fact, there was a Lane County commissioner named Archie 
Weinstein who was a real throwback strange guy. He had a second 
hand store there that was pretty well known. He was at, one of the 
stories about him was that he'd buy a box car of surplus army socks 
and they're all the same size and then he'd throw them in boxes 
labeled small, medium and large. That's the guy he was. And so all,  
everything was changing down there and they were still putting in 
parts of the mall and closing some of the streets and everyone 
thought this was going to be a really good idea. But then the 
Downtown retail core died because I guess people wanted to be 
able to drive by a store before they, although you can't do that at 
Valley River, either. But anyway, one by one, all those big retail 
stores left and then obviously now they've changed it back to 
streets you can drive through and so on. But Eugene had a much 
more of a small town  feel then. And Springfield  was really small 
and was totally blue collar and Springfield's really reinvented itself 
in a lot of ways. There weren't that many places, like Mazzi’s was a 
classic place to go. Pegasus Pizza didn't exist yet over the campus 
and there just weren't that many— it was just a really different feel 
to it. And then, the town got a lot a lot bigger. Well, I still pretend 
it's small, but— 
Long: And then— 
DePaolis:  And the other thing that was different then was the economy. The 
Weyerhaeuser paper mill dumped its smell into the air a ton. I still 
remember how horrendously that smelled. You still had the grass 
seed farm burning wars and some really bad things, it was terrible 
accident on the freeway one day when there was just an 
unbelievable smoke that just really clogged everything up. 
Springfield, well you had a lot of logging, obviously still going on 
and then that started to die down in the '80's. But Springfield was  
considered to be just an absolutely redneck dangerous town for 
anybody a little different.  
Long:  What about the highways? Was I-105 in and the Beltline?  
DePaolis: I think 105 was in or the Beltline? But I didn't drive around the 
outskirts much. I really dealt with the university and I live pretty 
close to the university. And so as you just tended to deal with a 
core area. My partner and I went camping a lot, but we didn't 
really, it wasn't right around here. But the towns really— Things 
have really changed. The logging, that whole  industry went away, 
they've stopped the burning. The university hadn't expanded as 
much. Obviously, you didn't have all of the new buildings that the 
university  has. Springfield and Eugene was a really, the town and 
gown thing. It was just this whole thing that Eugene was very 
elitist and Springfield was totally blue collar. And there's a lot more 
of a dichotomy at that  point. I still remember going to a barbecue 
that they used to have in Springfield. They'd have barbecue chicken 
and everything was really good. My partner and I went and it was 
on a hot summer day and I was wearing a sleeveless shirt and I 
have a great horned owl  tattooed on my upper arm and I realized 
after a while I noticed that people were, I was getting a lot of dirty 
looks. And at first I thought it was because we were two women 
and I finally thought, "I think they think that's a spotted owl," 
which they despised because that, they blamed that for the loss of 
logging industry. Although there were a lot of factors in that.   
Raiskin: So these are also the same years as these recurring anti-gay bills 
and then anti-discrimination movements and— 
DePaolis:  Yeah. Oregon citizens Alliance.  
Raiskin: Oregon Citizens Alliance. And can you tell us about your memory 
of living through that and particularly as a lawyer who 
understands things about the legislature and nondiscrimination?  
DePaolis:  Yeah. Parts of that  were a complete nightmare. The OCA started 
out with an antiabortion, a statewide initiative.  
Raiskin: The Oregon citizens Alliance.  
DePaolis:  Oregon Citizens Alliance. Yeah. They were a strange group and it's 
a couple of their people were super strange. One of them, I can't 
remember, his name is Scott something?  
Raiskin: Scott Lively. 
DePaolis:  Is he the guy who I ended up going to Uganda and persuading 
them to try to pass legislation that homosexuals were to get the 
death penalty? I think.  Yeah, he was a real— And he wrote this 
whole book that the Nazis were all really homosexuals and that 
was the source of all their evil. This guy was obsessed. I'd love 
somebody to get inside his head someday and see what was going 
on for him. And then there was this other really unbelievable guy 
named Lon Mabon, who was the face of that. I think 1992 was the 
first anti-gay measure. I think. And it was good that that was the 
first one because it was the creepiest and the ugliest one. And so it  
exposed them to a lot of people who they really were because it 
essentially equated homosexuals with pedophiles, necrophiliacs 
and people who practice bestiality because they were all lumped 
together as the bad guys. And so the only good thing about that 
was that it was so extreme that an awful lot of people who might 
otherwise go, “Whoa, I'm not too crazy about the gays either” were  
like, "No, wait, this is nuts." That was really good.  
 But it was terrifying and really divisive. And it was also that fall 
and that same, that election was the fall that my brother was dying. 
That was just a nightmare for me all around. And I was not only 
working at Lane County Legal Aid [actually, was working in 
private practice at this time], but I was teaching a class at the law 
school in practical lawyering  skills. And I was  flying down to 
southern California to try and see my brother who was in the 
hospital for four months. And in fact, my partner and I got absentee 
ballots because we were afraid we might get stuck down there. 
And we weren't going to miss that election. But that time was such 
a complete nightmare. And I know you're going to talk to my wife 
Nadia later, but, and she'll give you— she'll flesh this out for you 
more, but I'll just tell you briefly, she afterwards was invited to 
participate in a group led by a mediator that was some evangelical 
leaders and I think an OCA guy and activists from the gay 
community to see if they could have some dialogue to sort of find 
some humanity, and that was a really profound experience for her. 
I know she'll end up telling you a lot about that. But at one point 
the mediator took them all down to southern Oregon somewhere to  
a retreat or something and things got super intense and I know 
Nadia  called me and I'm like, "I will drive." This was three hours 
away. I said, "I will drive down there and pick you up tonight if 
that's what you need, if you want to leave." And she decided to 
stick it out and eventually was glad. But one of the most profound 
moments that came out of that was when she broke down crying 
about the pain around these things. What the OCA had done. And 
one of these religious leaders was like the first time it had occurred 
to him that this stuff because it caused pain to real people. It was 
also, I think the first time it occurred to him that a gay or lesbian 
person might have ethics and morals. It's like he just didn't think 
that way and it was a change for him too.  
 There was a lot, but there were a lot of things going on legally. This 
is actually lead to a couple of funny stories. So, in the very early 
seventies they revamped the Oregon criminal code and they threw 
out a lot of the law against gay sex. It was against the law to have, 
whether you were gay or straight, it was against the law to have 
oral or anal sex. It was a crime. And so they eliminated that and 
cleaned up a lot of other stuff. But one law they did not eliminate 
was a law that forbade soliciting oral or anal sex. Now, there was a 
law that said you could not solicit so-called heterosexual sex if 
there was going to be money or something of value that was 
exchanged. That's prostitution law. But this law said you could not 
solicit anal or oral sex regardless, which meant that it was still 
against the law to ask somebody to do something that it was no  
longer against the law to do. So, the Eugene police for reasons they  
would have to be interviewed to find out, set up a sting in Alton 
Baker Park because they'd gotten some complaints by, I don't know 
who that at three or four o'clock in the morning, there were gay 
men in a parking lot who were soliciting and so they had their 
cutest cops  put on tight pants, go walk around down there at 3:00 
o'clock in the morning until they'd snag some guy who would ask 
them to do something or maybe just ask them to go home with him 
and they'd just extrapolate. They were issuing these tickets and 
these guys didn't want any publicity, so they were all pleading out 
to disorderly conduct instead of soliciting, whatever. I don't know 
what they called it— deviant sex I think was it. Soliciting deviant 
sex. Nobody wants that on their record.  
 A woman I know, an attorney who might not have been an 
attorney, I don't remember. Anyway, she was active and trying to 
deal with this. And so she was trying to find some guy who would 
be brave enough to take it to trial, because the idea was, you have 
to go to trial, and of course there'd be publicity and you get 
convicted and then you can appeal it and say, "Hey, you can't make 
it against the law to ask somebody to do something that isn't 
against the law to do." But that's the only way you could do it. And 
of course you'd want it in appellate ruling because that would be 
state wide. You don't even want the trial judge to make that ruling. 
Although they could have.  
 She finally found a guy who was brave enough  and then she found 
a local trial attorney who I would say up until that point in time,  
had absolutely zero interest in gay rights. But he was a fighter and 
believed in justice. She persuaded him to try the case. I went over 
one day to watch the Voir  Dire  where the lawyers interview the 
jury panel to make sure they're going to be fair and unbiased. And 
that was remarkable. Well first of all, I had never seen this before. 
There were at least six people on the jury panel who said, not the 
whole panel, but the twelve  that they seat then  they questioned 
them.  
 There were at least six people who said, because the question was, 
the defense lawyer would say, "If you knew nothing else about my 
client, except that he's a gay man, do you think he's more likely or 
less likely to tell the truth or are you neutral?" Now, the right 
answer would be if you knew nothing else about anybody except 
some irrelevant fact like that, then you're like, "Well I'm just 
neutral. I don't know." But there were six people who said, "No, 
he'd be less likely to tell the truth."  
 They were excused for cause, which is really unusual in a criminal 
trial because nobody ever admits that they're biased. Nobody ever 
says, "Yeah, I'm a racist. I'm not going to be fair to this black guy." 
Nobody ever says, "Oh no, I can’t be fair." Because everybody's 
invested in wanting to see themselves as a fair minded person or at 
least not admitting it publicly. There are all these people who said, 
"I don't know, I think he'd be a liar." Absolutely.  That would push 
me over the edge.” They were all excused for cause. That was 
pretty amazing right there. Then they're asking the more  
individualized questions were more tailored questions.  The defense 
lawyer asks the group, he says, "Well, my client is accused of 
soliciting sex. So, I don't know, maybe if any of you ever had an 
experience that or—" Something. I don't remember exactly how he 
put it, but anyways, so this one old guy raises his hand. He said, 
"Well, when I was a boy, we used to go  swimming at a quarry or a 
pond or something.  
 And there was a guy that hung around there and it was sort of 
known that he'd approach some of the boys and ask them to go 
with him or something like that." And so the lawyer says, "Well, 
did that ever happened to you?" And he said, "No." And he said, 
"Well how would you feel about that if that happened to you?" And 
the guy said, "Well I just figured if you didn't want to, you said no." 
I'm sitting there going, well you're not going to be on the jury as the  
prosecutors getting rid of you way too fair and sure enough, next 
round of challenges because you do, it's anonymous challenging. 
It's done so that theoretically the jury can't tell which lawyer is 
challenging who. But you don't have to be overly bright to figure it 
out. But in any case, I know the order they go in. I knew it was the 
prosecutor and the other guy was called. Then then the, I think the 
D.A. was asking some questions and then this young woman raised 
her hand and said, "Excuse me, can I ask a question?" And I 
thought, "Oh, this probably isn't going to be good."  
 But the DA, you never want to look like you're being mean to 
somebody on the jury because then the other jurors side with that  
jury person. So, even though I'm sure he didn't want to, he said, 
"Okay." And she said, "So you mean to say that I could ask a guy to 
have sex and that would be okay, but it's against the law for him to 
ask a guy to have sex?" And the D.A. turned bright red and he said, 
"Well, the judge will instruct you on the law at the end of the trial." 
And I'm thinking to myself, "No, he won't honey, because you're 
not going to be here at the end of the trial because you are gone, 
gone, gone." And yeah, she was the next challenge. And so what 
happened was this lawyer, Larry Gildea  was his name, he did such 
a good job that the guy got acquitted. Which was not even what 
they wanted to have happen.  
 Then they had to find another guy who was brave enough to go 
through a trial and they finally did and they lost and they  appealed 
it, and the court of appeals said, "You can't make it against the law 
to ask somebody to do something that's not against the law to do."  
Raiskin: And what year  was that?  
DePaolis:  Well, this woman, Dana, I don't think she was admitted to the bar 
yet. I'm going to say maybe 1977, '78. Well, let me think. She was in 
Mary Ann's class, Mary Ann graduated in '78. It was probably '79, 
maybe early '79. Yeah, that was one of the most amazing— that and 
the Voir Dire  was one of the most amazing things I ever saw. The 
Oregon Citizens Alliance, finally, what path? I can't remember 
exactly what happened now, but the result— What happened was 
that all the local communities started passing anti-gay laws. Veneta 
and Junction City and Springfield and all the little local  
communities started passing them. And the ACLU was challenging 
all that because there was going to be some bigger decision made. 
And I'm not good on the details right now, but the director of the 
ACLU, the Oregon ACLU, Dave Fidanque  was and is a really good 
friend of mine. We went to college together. He'd had different 
volunteer lawyers and see, he asked me if I would handle, do the 
Junction City lawsuit.  
 And it was pretty, a lot of it was boilerplate. What ended up 
happening was the cities were mostly settling because they didn't 
want to pay to litigate this. They didn't have the budget for all of 
that. And there was an argument that it needed to be a statewide 
decision and blah de blah. But before we got to that, there was an 
interesting situation in Junction City and this was the first lawsuit 
that I did as a volunteer for the ACLU where they had discovered 
that the law  had passed in Junction City by two votes or something. 
It was unbelievably tight and it was discovered that there was a, 
want to say Faith Center, but I don't want to slander them because 
it might not have been them, but there was a religious, there was a 
church that apparently had allowed, possibly encouraged, some of 
its members to use the church as an address  to register to vote.  
 And you can't do that. Since we were pretty sure how those church 
members had voted, there were three people or four people who 
were identified. And so there is a statute that allows you to 
challenge the outcome of an election. I don't remember a lot of the 
details. I think this was might have been in the early '90's. We  
challenged the election and that involved getting a couple of these 
people and pretty much proving that no, they didn't live there and 
that yes, they did vote for it. And anyway, that was sort of crazy. 
And then the OCA put it back on the ballot for Junction City. And 
this time, the anti OCA people decided that they were sick of 
spending their money and energy fighting this stuff when the 
outcomes were— Anyway, they just said, "You know what, we're 
funneling all our energies into Habitat for Humanity right now." 
And so they didn't fight it and it passed big. And then the ACLU 
sued to overturn it on these other grounds and the city settled and 
voided it, which all the cities did. Veneta, Springfield, the other 
ones all ended up settling and voiding them out for the time being. 
But, that voter fraud suit was unusual.  
Raiskin:  Do you know what happened to Lon Mabon or Scott Lively?  
DePaolis:  Scott Lively went after writing this book  about the homosexual 
Nazis  and that being the whole source of the Nazi thing. He ended 
up being really big in, involved in this African missionary thing 
where they got countries like Uganda to pass or to consider passing 
laws that would  give the death penalty to homosexuals. I don't 
know what he did after that. And Lon Mabon, I did at one time 
know what happened to him. He's drifted on into something else.  
Raiskin:  I think he was jailed for wanting another—  
DePaolis:  I can't remember  now. He was a strange character too, because he 
had been a really liberal and hippie type person. And then I don't 
know if— 
Raiskin:  What was the motivation, do you think?  
DePaolis:  Christianity, that was all the whole thing that they was their thing.  
Raiskin: So now we're in Eugene in the '90's.  
DePaolis:  We already got to the '90's.  
Raiskin:  You mentioned the drug scene.  
DePaolis:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Can you tell us a little about that?  
DePaolis:  Well, the '80's was a big cocaine scene. I can tell you that I certainly 
did my share and there were other things Quaaludes and other 
stuff and that was part of the bar scene and part of the just very 
licentious time period. I don't know, let's blame Ronald Reagan for 
that period. It was just sort of notorious. You'd go to the bar, you'd 
sneak into the bathroom with somebody, you'd do a couple of lines 
of coke and dance your feet off. Yeah. Some people got really hurt. 
No question. And I'm a fortunate person that I don't have a super 
addictive personality and so eventually it's, "No, this doesn't seem 
like a very good idea." But and there was heroin around too. I 
didn't know people, but I know Nadia had a roommate who was a 
heroin addict who  died. I think that's just part of life to some extent.  
And I think drugs and gay people, my brother and his friends, I 
know they were super into amyl  nitrate, poppers and his friends, I 
didn't even know what it was. And they offered some to me one 
afternoon when I came to his apartment and he had roommates 
that were home,  but he wasn't home yet. And he said, "Gee, have 
you ever done poppers?" And I said, "No," and I was very 
experimental then. It was a hoot, but I think you would get a heart 
attack. I don't know. But, I think there was just this licentiousness— 
there's  also this freedom and this idea that we're finally out, we can 
do whatever we want. And we were all young then, too. You can 
do what you want if you don't do too much of it when you're 
young. Because, now I know I'd have a heart attack. But, a lot of 
people get over that. But, that stuff claimed a lot of people too 
because they didn't know how to say no finally or how to dial it 
down.  
Raiskin: Do you see any specific to the gay community in terms of drugs or 
you think it was just of the time, or? 
DePaolis:  Well, I think there's multiple factors. There's no question it was  of 
the time. I think that part of being gay is dealing with your own 
and everyone else's homophobia and self-esteem issues and drugs 
and alcohol are a place to hide or to just not feel it for a while. And 
gay life— obviously we all know stories of the ‘50s scene and all of 
that, and the bar was the only place you could find people, meet 
people and so on. I think that's part of it. I think the pain of being, 
feeling like you're such an outcast. I know that there's some  
pleasure in being an outcast. And there are people who are even 
nostalgic for the good old days when we were all secret club and 
you could just see somebody and you'd know, and there was a 
secret handshake or whatever. And I  get that too, but then it's like, 
"Yeah, but how do you feel about all those police raids and all the— 
Yeah.” There is some of that, but I don't know enough to know if 
the rates of alcohol and drug use are higher. It wouldn't 
particularly surprise me because I think there's so much 
psychological pain. There's so  been so much hatred and fear. And 
then it becomes part of how you feel about yourself and that feeling 
that you have to hide and that you can't relax. And this is a place— 
the bar where you can have a few drinks and just relax. I saw a 
variation on that one time in the early '90's. Nadia and I did an 
Olivia cruise, a women's cruise up to Alaska with 800 of our closest 
friends and that's a small one now. And it was fun and we met 
some super interesting people, but one of the things we noticed 
was, when talking to people was that so many of these women, that 
was the only place where they could walk around on deck and 
hold hands where they could be themselves. And we didn't feel 
that way about Eugene because Eugene can be a bubble. And 
because we were more out and we didn't have to worry about a job 
or family, not that our families were in love with it, but we didn't 
have to worry about a lot of that stuff. And for a ton of these 
women, and you talk to them and you find the women that went to 
lots of these cruises and you'd say, "What exactly?" I know they 
have good entertainment but then they go to fun places, but it's got  
to be there anything else? And that's what it was about. It was 
about:  Here I can be myself, here I can be open, I can relax, I can 
finally let my guard down. And that's what a huge part of that time 
was. Your guard was always up. I have a new doctor, what am I 
going to tell? I remember when Mary Ann  got a yeast infection 
when she was still in law school. She went to the student health 
service and they said, "Yeah, you have a yeast infection. Then the 
nurse is like— and so Mary Ann  is like, "Well, what about sex?" 
And so the nurse says, "Well, you'll probably be painful right now. 
You probably should wait and then after that few days and you 
take the medication, ask your partner to wear a condom." And  
Mary Ann  is like, "What about a woman?" And the nurse turned 
bright red, and said very professionally, "Oh, well that's a very 
good question. And the doctor will discuss that with you." Every 
place you went. We went to buy insurance, renter's insurance, in 
the basement of Sears and Roebuck, which was on Tenth  at the 
time. And it's like, "Well, normally only one renter can  have the 
insurance." And we finally actually somehow all figured out 
together that the woman agent was also a lesbian.  
 By the way, at this health center, the doctor who came in was at 
that time, married and subsequently came out as a lesbian. It's just 
over and over again. Now,  a while back, Nadia and I were, I don't 
remember where we were. We were vacationing somewhere and 
we were renting a car and we said at the desk and we're like, we 
want to add a second driver and the guy says, "Well, is there any 
special relationship?" And actually I think he was gay. And when  
we said, "We're married," and he goes, "Oh, good." But in the '70's, 
in the '80's and the '90's, it's like, "Who can I tell? How much can I 
say? What will happen? “And so that coming out process is over 
and over and over. Everybody you meet, everybody you talk to. 
And it's just such a big thing. I had a conversation with a law 
professor. Well, I wasn't in law school anymore, but and he was a 
nice guy and I like this guy, but he just kind of, he  said, "Well, I get 
it and blah, blah, blah. But I just don't see why you have to tell 
everybody. It's just private, so you just don't have to tell 
everybody." And I said, "Fred, every Monday morning when you 
go to law school and you have your first class and everybody's 
rolling in and uncapping their coffees and whatever, and you say, 
'It's a pretty bad weather today. But I had a really nice weekend. 
My wife and I went to the coast and blah, blah blah.'" And I said, 
"You just came out to your class as a heterosexual." And to his 
credit he went, "Oh." And he got it. I  said, "It's just casual." When 
Nadia and I got married finally, I just took a lot of pleasure in 
anytime I was in any casual conversation with the most casual or 
there's somebody standing next to me in the supermarket line and 
it's like, "Oh yeah, my wife and I like that brand too." Because I 
thought that's exactly what straight  people do. They say it is all the 
time. It's just normal. Well, this is normal to me. That was funny.  
Long: Did they have any negative reactions when you would say 
something like that in a casual way?  
DePaolis:  No. By the time we were married it was, it wasn't 1970 anymore.   
Raiskin:  Yeah. How was marriage equality roller coaster for you?  
DePaolis:  Well that was pretty interesting because we've done commitment 
ceremonies. We did this one with the city of Eugene. We did the 
thing in 2000—we've had a whole series of, we had so many 
anniversaries, we finally gave that up— it was crazy. But because 
we went to the March on Washington in 1993 and went through a 
mass commitment ceremony. So, in 2003 was it, or 2004 when 
Multnomah County decided that they were going to issue marriage 
licenses. You can thank my friend Dave Fidanque for that. And 
Dave says, "I'm going to  get you one so that you can get married in 
Eugene so we can show that you can use a marriage license 
anywhere." Well, I was actually out of town. And so there were 
some other couples that got married and they publicized the thing 
he wanted. But then I came back and we were still going to do it. 
And so we had a week to figure out a wedding. What we decided 
to do a wedding, so we had a week to pull it together. We rented 
space at the Downtown Athletic Club and we invited a whole 
bunch of people and we had food arranged, we paid for a little 
dance floor. And then a bunch of my friends from Portland drove 
down. And all these people showed up that we barely knew. They 
just heard about it and thought, "Yeah, I want to support this." And 
we ended up with 150  people at this wedding. And we did a 
chuppah— Nadia is  Jewish, so we had a chuppah, that we made 
ourselves and we had, people, couples and then our niece at the 
corners and talked about what the symbolism of the chuppah was, 
which I didn't really realize,  but it symbolizes the home that you're  
making together and the people that you have holding it up, the 
posts, are symbolizing how society, your friends and family 
support you in your home and your coupledom. And then I didn't 
realize how moved I was going to be by doing it, by just making 
this public promise.  I was really— it was sweet—was really 
surprised. It was fun. And when we exited, we'd had music set up 
and so they was playing the Beatles, “All You Need is Love.” And 
then we went into a little room where we just recovered, ate 
something and got our blood sugar back up and our adrenaline 
down before we went back out to mingle. But we had had 
somebody recording it and they were still recording. They were out 
there recording and they showed us later that everybody started 
singing, “All You Need is Love.” It was just really unbelievably 
sweet. I knew that wasn't going to last because I knew that the 
Oregon Supreme court would say exactly what they said, which is, 
"No, we're not doing this on a County  by County basis."  
Raiskin:  So, your marriage was annulled.  
DePaolis:  Well, it was what was voided. It was voided, for free. And they 
send us back our check. I know people who didn't cash their check. 
So they— 
Long: What year was that?  
DePaolis:  It was 2003 or 2004. I can't remember which.  
Long:  2004.   
DePaolis:  Well, we still have a very nice picture of us under the chuppa  with 
our friends holding the poles. So anyway, they gave us a free 
voiding.  
Raiskin:  How did that feel?  
DePaolis:  Well, I knew that was going to happen, so it didn't really make any 
difference. And we had exchanged rings long before that. And we'd 
been together I don't even can't even remember now. But seventeen  
or eighteen  years by that point. That was just fun. It was fun to 
have all those people show up and to have a big party and to go 
through the ceremony and to make that— And I thought about 
that. That’s that  public commitment. That was really moving and 
that was really fun. And then when it happened for real, when 
Judge McShane made his ruling in Oregon and I knew exactly how 
that was going to come out, too. Anyway, so the day his ruling was 
going to come out was like I don't know, Monday at noon or 
something. And so I had gone over there at about 11:30 to get in 
line for the marriage license. And I was not first; there were people 
who had been there for hours and we were fourth. I was fourth. 
Nadia couldn't come yet. But, so at— it was announced at noon and 
all, all these people around me had smart, I don't  have a smart 
phone, but they had smart phones. And I knew they would. They 
all knew instantly and then the clerk's office said, whoever issues 
the licenses said, "We're going to be closed for an hour." Well the 
reason they were closed for an hour, is they were waiting for the 
ruling and then they changed their form, the marriage license  
application, which used to have line for husband and wife. They 
changed it to party A and party B. And so at 1:00 o'clock they 
opened and Nadia had joined me by then and  we got the license 
and then they had a— Basic Rights  had something set up over at 
Davis's restaurant.  
 They had a bunch of ministers and people there to do the 
ceremonies and stuff. We went over there and two friends of ours, 
two very dear friends of ours had come to be with us and be our 
witnesses. And so because I said, "We're getting married instantly. 
We aren't having another party, I ain’t waitin’, I ain’t  waitin’ for 
there to be a stay appealed  for— “It was like, "We're getting this 
done." Part of the reason from my point of view was that my social 
security is going to be a lot more comfortable than Nadia's and if I 
died first, I wanted her to be able to access it. Even though Oregon 
when the marriage thing in 2004 was undone by the Oregon 
Supreme Court, which was the correct ruling and then we had that 
horrible campaign. The marriage is only between a man and a 
woman.  
Long:  That was Measure 36.  
DePaolis:  Yeah, I don't remember the numbers. And then the Oregon 
legislature passed a law  that basically said you can register for an 
Oregon domestic partnership and your rights and responsibilities 
are exactly the same as if you had  gotten  legally married. For state 
purposes, there was no distinction whatsoever. But not for federal 
purposes. And that was where the whole social security thing came  
in from my point of view. And just in terms of wanting to provide 
for my family.  
Raiskin:  So when you were down at the courthouse at that time to get 
married, that was 2015. 
DePaolis:  '14. 
Raiskin:  '14. 
DePaolis:  2014.  
Long:  Okay. It was before the national.  
Raiskin:  Yeah.  
DePaolis:  Right. It was before the  national decision. We went over to Davis' 
and then one of the judges showed up. It was Ilisa Rook-Ley, who I 
know. She just came over to help out. And I said, "Oh good, 
because I don't want a religious person doing our ceremony, so you 
could do it." So, it was just this little, yup, I do. Yup. Those kind 
of— Not overly memorable, but it was cool. Then for Basic Rights, I 
was on a number of panels talking about what it means to be 
married. Because then I had to— Because I did a lot of family law. 
And so I had to tell people, I said, "This isn't just moving in or this 
isn't— There's some serious rights that come with this and there's 
some very serious responsibilities that come with this. Now when 
you leave, you have to get divorced and you could be ordered to 
pay alimony, spousal support and you might have to divide 
property differently." There already been a lot of stuff around  
dividing property. And I did some of those cases and I had a really 
landmark case of a civil or not a, it wasn't a formal domestic 
partners, informal domestic partners. It wasn't a gay couple either, 
but the rules were the same. It was a man and a woman and there 
was this huge dispute when they parted ways over who owned 
what and who got to have this and that. And we got a ruling out of 
the Oregon Court of Appeal. Well, we won the trial, and then the 
woman, I represented the guy and then the woman appealed and 
we won the appeal. Well, we counter appealed, but I didn't think 
we'd win the counter appeal. We just did that to shake her up a 
little bit. But the court basically said, the whole thing with these 
domestic partnerships was, and they'd already been some law on 
that, that you go by the intent of the parties and if they have a 
written agreement, fine, you have their intent, but nobody ever has 
a written agreement. Then you have to figure out their implied 
intent by how they lived their lives. And there was all this stuff 
where, and there were some same sex cases too, where people buy 
a house together, but one of them doesn't have the down payment. 
Somebody puts in $20,000. Well, now they're breaking up. Well, do 
they get their twenty  grand back? Will they get it back with 
interest? Do they get a percentage of the apprec— How does that 
work? Or you put the, or the other ones where you buy a house 
together, except that it's only in one person's name because the 
other person doesn't have very good credit, and then maybe you 
make the payments equally or maybe you don't. Maybe one person 
makes the payments and the other person remodels the bathroom  
and then you start getting into these things you have with marriage 
where the Oregon Courts finally in the '80's I think, or something 
said that the contributions of both spouses are deemed to be, are 
presumed to be equal regardless of the actual dollars. Because you 
had this thing where— and I'd get these cases— a guy comes in to 
get divorced and then I say, "Your pension is going to be half hers." 
And then he says, “What do you mean? I got up and went to work 
every day.” And I said, "Well, was she sitting home on the couch 
sleeping? What was she doing?" "Oh, well, she was raising the 
kids." "Well, your pension is half hers.” That thing. So, the case  I 
had with this unmarried man and woman expanded that the 
thoughts about how to divide things equally or more in line with 
the intent of unmarried couples. And that would have been applied 
the same to unmarried gay couples, too. But when marriage law 
passed, then I started doing  these little talks and go, "This is a 
bigger deal." Better, worse. I don't know. It's just is. It just is what it 
is. And I said marriage is a contract and nobody thinks about the 
terms of the contract until they get  divorced. And so now we get to 
be part of the same mess.  
Long: And was that work that you did through Basic Rights Oregon?  
DePaolis:  That was just volunteer speaking on speaker panels around Eugene 
and we had a presentation at the law school on different stuff. And 
so I just did— some of that as— so that was a later time period than 
what you're focusing on. But the change, I never in my entire life  
thought I would get married even when I thought I was straight, I 
didn't think I'd get married.  
Raiskin:  I was just going to ask you, what do you think the biggest change 
in your life has been?  
DePaolis:  Due to what?  
Raiskin:  Even the change in the community or as a lesbian. What you were 
thinking in 1977 and looking back now.  
DePaolis:  Yeah, in my life, because I don't care about joining the military or 
any of that. I can't say that being married has changed my life so 
much as the change in feeling, well, part of this is just getting older. 
When you get older, you don't give a crap a lot  what other people 
think. That's what might've just happened anyway. But in the '70's, 
things were just starting to change in a lot of ways. It was still a 
secret society. My partner then and I had a little signal we'd give 
each other— we used to play charades and charades, when you 
touch your ear, it's a cue for, it's sounds the word you want, sounds 
like the word I'm going to act out because I can't act out. I can't 
figure out how to do the one that I should be doing, but I'm going 
to do a word that sounds like it. Rhymes with usually. It started 
from that, because it was like, sounds like “trike,” or sounds like 
“bike” when we'd see somebody, when your gaydar would go off. 
We'd see some woman walking down the street and we'd go like 
this. So, secret society, you know?  I know that a lot of— The U.S. is 
a bubble and then the part of the U.S. we live in is a bubble. There  
are a lot of places in the United States and a ton of places in the 
world where it is super dangerous to be gay. That said, they're 
having conversations in some of those places that they weren't 
having in the '70's. And our little bubble,  it's become so matter of 
fact. 
 We just saw Oklahoma  in Ashland, the musical and they did 
Oklahoma  this year with the two main characters are both women, 
and the secondary pair of lovers are both men. And it was really 
fun. They didn't change anything in the play except they changed 
the word. One word in one song. It's a song where one of the 
characters things, "I'm just the girl who can't say no." Well, that got 
changed to “boy.” But the other ones didn't change any of the 
dialogue. I don't think they were allowed to by the people that will 
hold the rights to them. It was just— and we said afterwards, “God, 
that was fun.” It was so normalized. Totally normalized. And the 
role of Aunt Eller was played by a transgender woman. That was 
really fun, too. And, one of my old college friends met us there 
with his husband and he and I were really good friends in college 
and we dated for a while and we loved each other and trusted each 
other totally. And we're really good friends. And we had traveled 
together. There  was no dating spark. And a few years later I 
figured out why I didn't have one. And eventually he figured out 
why he didn't have one. And so he was there with his husband of 
twenty-five years. And now I'm starting to twirl.   
Raiskin:  What do you think about aging as a lesbian? Do you have any 
thoughts about that or how you and— 
DePaolis:  The process of aging  takes up so much energy that aging as a 
lesbian is hardly even part of it. Just aging is a really interesting 
thing to do. Part of aging as a lesbian is that I really don't give a 
crap anymore about what people think. As long as I'm not 
somewhere where I think somebody's going to shoot me or beat me 
up. But otherwise it's like, "Well, this really isn't my problem."  
Raiskin:  How do you feel about— 
DePaolis:  There's just a sense of just, and this is part of getting older, I hope 
for a lot of people is  that you just like, "I am who I am."  
Raiskin:  But you'll be dealing with institutions, health institutions or 
retirement homes— 
DePaolis:  Yeah. See again, it's part of they're just going to have to deal with 
me as I am. I am done. I never did a whole lot of hiding and I'm— 
If I have  to go into a nursing home, then I am who I am. But I think 
that's a really big question for a lot of people who don't have the 
privileges I have or live in the community that I'm in. And that's a 
big fear for a lot of people. And I've heard about couples that can't 
share a room in a retirement facility or— I wouldn't want to be an 
aging lesbian in Arkansas,  Mississippi. There's a lot of work still to 
be done in that realm. But around here, I could be really naive 
about this, but I don't see it as a really big issue.   
Raiskin:  How do you plan to keep up community as people age?  
DePaolis:  Well, Nadia is better at that than I am. I do keep up with friends, 
although surprisingly a lot of the people I keep up with, old friends 
are not lesbians. But, we know a lot of people. One of the things I 
notice is just the, the lack of lesbian or gay events, it seems  like. 
We're not that connected to the campus stuff and those people are 
fifty years younger than we are. There was a comedian that we, I'm 
remembering this, so, there was a comedian at the pool hall. It's 
over on Charnelton  and— Lucky's. And it was somebody that we 
had seen years ago on TV in a gay sketch show on the logo channel. 
And we thought, "Oh, this will be fun. Let's go see what she's like 
live." And the comedians were all gay and I don't know if that was 
just a thing that Lucky's ran into that one night or what, but it was 
really fun. And some of them were super good. You look around 
the audience and realize, you start to look around the audiences 
and realize you're the oldest people there, or among the oldest.  
 That's just really different. It's not necessarily off-putting. But the 
number of events, the spaces, and people, maybe that's just part of 
aging that people nest more people are in a lot of people in couples, 
they do things. You just socialize differently when you get older. 
There isn't as much of a push to go out. You can't stay up as late, 
can't drink as much. It's just really different. Potlucks have lost their 
charm  for me. Some of that's just aging. But it is a different thing 
community-wise. You have to put more effort into it. And I find 
one thing that happens, and again I think this is just part of aging,  
but people that you were in touch with on a regular basis because 
of a certain thing you share a certain event or something and then 
when that goes away the relationship goes away because that was 
the, it's not like you don't like each other. If you ran into each other 
on the street, you probably stop  and talk for twenty  minutes and 
then say, "Oh, we should have lunch some time," but you won't 
probably.  
 It's like there's a certain amount of social glue just from going to 
certain activities, and work is a big piece of that, too. The number of 
people I've stayed in touch with now that I'm not working 
anymore. The number of people from that  community is really 
small. You have to make adjustments like that. But I'm not sure that 
that has anything to do with being lesbian. But I think for some 
people it could if they don't reach out very well. So, I don't know.  
Long: When you look back on your life as a lesbian in Eugene, what 
would you consider the greatest joy of living in the lesbian 
community?  
DePaolis:  Wow. It would've been a good question to tell me about ahead of 
time. The greatest joy? Well, I dearly love my spouse, so that would 
have to be my greatest joy because that's— we’ve  been together 30 
years and for all our— and we are as different as night and day, 
but, somehow we make that work. So I'm going to put that on the 
top of the list. I'm absolutely filled with joy that I can still hit a 
softball. A lot of what I think about when I look back on my, I had a 
young person that had been a client of mine once asked me if I had  
regrets and I said—I have made a lot of mistakes in my life though. 
Don't misunderstand me. I have made my share maybe more, I 
don't know, but a lot, but I don't know that I have regrets exactly. I 
regret if I've caused somebody pain or something like that, but in 
terms  of each step and each thing leads to  where you are.  So I said, 
"I'm afraid to change anything because then it might not have 
ended up the same and I feel pretty good about where things 
ended up." So, I can look back on my life and go, I've been really 
lucky to escape a lot of the hell that some people run into, whether 
it's just bad luck, car accident, health, whatever. And I feel good 
about the work that I've done and the contributions that I've made 
and I really like being retired. So, not really going to complain 
about anything. The thing about being a lesbian that's interesting is 
I first had a thought— I had it cross my mind. The earliest I can 
remember is when I was in high school. I know some people know 
when they're three or whatever, but I didn't. And I didn't know. It 
just occurred to me. And I went, "Oh no, that's not happening. That 
would be really awful. As much as I feel depressed and an outcast 
and fat and blah, blah, blah, that would be absolute kiss of death." 
Okay. But it would come creeping back and then it goes, shoved 
that away. And then when it finally just was, it was like I said 
earlier, it was like, "Okay, this is all right." And then things were 
hard at different times. Different stuff was hard. I was really lucky 
in so many ways. Nobody beat me up. I didn't get discriminated 
against. I only had the one employer and then I went into private 
practice. I've been really privileged in a lot of ways. But there was  
more than anything, it was just this sense of finding who I am. And 
so to the extent that that's true, if that's true for other people, and I 
imagine it is that they feel like they found who they are. And 
maybe there's a little, some things that aren't, the greatest about 
that, but it seems like that's the biggest thing in  life anyways. 
Figuring out who you're supposed to be. Who you are meant to be. 
And if we knew then what we know now, but we don't  ever. I don't 
ever get that. Anyway, I'm not going to complain.  
Long: Thank you so much. 
Raiskin:  That was wonderful. Nice talking to you.  
DePaolis:  You're very welcome. It was fun.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  