 
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’  Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Shoshana Cohen, on September 4, 
2018 taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’  recording 
studio in the Center for Media and Educational Technologies. The 
interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of Manuscripts in The UO 
Libraries' Special Collections and University Archives and 
Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO Department of Women's Gender 
and Sexuality Studies.  
 Shoshana, please let us know if you agree to be recorded  for this 
project and that you give your permission for the university to 
preserve and make available your recorded and transcribed 
interview.   
Cohen:  Yes, I agree.  
Long:  Thank you. Why don't we just start with a basic question. Can you 
please tell us when  and where you were born and a little bit about 
your early years?  
Cohen:  I was born at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville, 
Virginia in 1950. I grew up or spent the first twelve  or thirteen  
years of my life in Scottsville, Virginia, twenty miles south of 
Charlottesville on the James River. We were the only Jewish family 
in a town of 250 people. My parents got there because my 
grandparents immigrated from Lithuania, not together. They got 
married once they were in this country and wound up in 
Lynchburg. And during the depression they lost their business and 
their store and found a place in Scottsville. I spent years zero to 
twelve  in Scottsville.  
Raiskin:  And so you grew up with your grandparents and your parents?  
Cohen:  No. My father came back from World War II and they couldn't find 
housing in Washington, D.C. and I'm not quite sure what he had 
planned on doing up there, what jobs. They moved to  Scottsville 
and my grandparents soon retired up to Atlantic City, New Jersey.  
Raiskin:  Do you know why they had trouble finding housing?  
Cohen:  I think after the war, a lot of people had trouble finding housing 
because a lot of people came back to the Washington area. I've 
heard a couple of times it was hard to find housing there.   
Raiskin:  What did your parents do? What did your parents do for a living?  
Cohen:  Owned a dry goods store, became a clothing store. My grandfather 
and grandmother started, it, started the one in Lynchburg. 
Apparently they started by— Grandpa would take a horse and a  
carriage and peddle dry goods throughout southern Virginia into 
North Carolina.  
Raiskin:  What was it like being the only Jewish family in that small town?  
Cohen:  We were aware of it. Mostly because every now and then a teacher 
would mention it and my mother mentioned it to us. And a lot of 
my friends went to Bible School in the summer and I didn't have to 
go, which made me happy, actually. We had to drive all the way 
over to Charlottesville for a Sunday school. We got out of a class for 
the High Holy days. But yeah, we were aware that we were 
different, but we were kids and yeah, we didn't really notice it.  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament like when you were a kid?  
Cohen:  My temperament. I was a mischievous tomboy and I had— Yeah, 
got into trouble a little bit. I think I was kind of an unfocused kid, a 
child. My father's child. My parents were worried about me, mostly 
because I was such a tomboy. But yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did that bother them?  
Cohen:  Yeah. I mean, they never said that, but I think they were concerned 
about how I would turn out.   
Long:  Did you have brothers and sisters?  
Cohen:  I have a sister who's seventeen  months older than me.  
Raiskin:  Did you ever think of yourself as different in middle school child or 
up through high school or around your sexuality?  
Cohen:  I didn't recognize it as different. My dreams in my dreams because 
as a teenager, you have, well, I had sexual dreams. In those dreams, 
I was always the boy or the man and I was never the woman.  
Raiskin:  Did you see yourself in the dream?  
Cohen:  In the dreams? Yeah. I mean, I would see a man and a woman and I 
was a man. I was the man. Yes, I mean, that's what I know.  
Long:  So you went to public grade school, public high school?  
Cohen:  No, I went to public grade school. My mother was concerned that 
we would grow up and marry Scottsville boys, farm boys. She was 
from Baltimore. She was from a big Jewish family and grew up in a 
Jewish neighborhood and she was upwardly mobile and she'd gone 
through the Depression and that had a major effect on her that she 
never articulated. Anyway, she wanted us to move to 
Charlottesville, but school started, my sister was a year older. The 
real story here is in the gray with Mom and Dad, but we wound up 
going to St. Ann's Episcopalian Girls School and that's where I 
graduated, from St. Ann's. It was great.  
Long:  In Charlottesville?   
Cohen:  In Charlottesville.  
Long:  What was great about it?  
Cohen:  It was great because it was a small school. I was not a good student. 
I think I was almost the bottom of my class at St. Ann's and I 
certainly wasn't prepared for the academic rigor. It was great 
because you could be more of yourself. You didn't have that social 
awkwardness. What would have been awkward for me because I 
was shy, a big school and boys and girls. I mean, I had boy  friends. 
But I mean, to me they were friends. And I didn't have that social 
pressure and it was just a lot of fun.  
Raiskin:  Were your friends at school dating when you were in high school?  
Cohen:  Yes, and I occasionally dated, but not all that often. I just went back 
from my fiftieth  high school reunion. So great.  
Raiskin:  So you graduated high school.  
Cohen:  I graduated high school and then I didn't have that many choices in 
terms of college and I really had no idea what I wanted to do or 
where I wanted to go. But I wound up at American University. My 
mother was happy about that because there were a lot of Jews 
there. I think it was 60 percent  Jewish at the time. All the kids from 
the suburbs of New Jersey and Boston,  the kids that didn't get into  
George Washington or the better schools, they all went to American 
University. That was hard for me, but I had an aunt and uncle that 
lived nearby, so I spent a lot of time with them. Because it was a  
culture of people that I was not used to. A lot of fake fur and GTOs  
and people— Yeah, from the suburbs.  At the same time, it was 1968 
and there were big anti-war demonstrations in Washington, D.C 
and I participated in those. I mean, there were hundreds of 
thousands of people that came. In '68 and there was another 
demonstration in '69. I can remember being at a demonstration for 
Nixon's inauguration and I mean, it was so crowded that you could 
lift your feet off of the ground and you would just be held up by 
the crush of the crowd. But I didn't like American University. 
Wound up going to University of Denver, transferring there and 
graduating from University of Denver in sociology.  
Long:  Why did you choose Denver?  
Cohen:  I chose Denver because I didn't get into University of Colorado at 
Boulder. A good friend of mine and I had decided we wanted to go 
West and go to school out West. She was going to school up in 
Boston. She unfortunately died in 1969 of meningitis. Now, there 
was somebody that I was in love with, but I didn't know it at the 
time.  
Raiskin:  What were your feelings for her?  
Cohen:  Oh, I, well, they— I was drawn to her physically, but I couldn't 
have described that then. And she was very popular. A lot of— She 
was from high school. I mean, she was a boarder at St. Ann's. I 
think a lot of people sort of were in love with her, but for me it was 
a little different.   
Raiskin:  So you moved to Denver— 
Cohen:  I moved to Denver. Finished school there. During that period of 
time, there were still, I mean, Denver was unlike American 
University, which was sort of in the belly of the beast. There wasn’t 
as much political activity. I think the most formative events that I 
went to were, or was, it was an event, was a feminist conference at 
Fort Collins. It must've been Colorado State.  I heard about it 
because a friend of mine, Jane Gibbons, who is still a good friend of 
mine and lives around the corner, was working for a feminist 
newspaper  called Big Mama Rag. I went, I don't even know who I 
went with. I don't know whether it was people from the university 
or who it was. I remember hearing Gloria Steinem speak, and there 
was a woman named Margaret whose last name I.ve forgotten.  
Raiskin: Sloan?  
Cohen:  Yes.  
Long:  What was that, Sloan?  
Raiskin:  Margaret Sloan.  
Cohen:  Yeah. Oh my God. It was a very powerful experience for me. And 
there were other— I mean, there were workshops and so on. And 
there was, I can't remember, there were these fierce lesbians there. 
They seemed angry and they had short hair. But I was just taken, I 
was taken by them, by the whole event. I can't say, "Well, it affected  
me in a, b and c." But really, it was just another big influence that I 
internalized in some way.  
Long:  What year was this?  
Cohen:  Let's see, I graduated in March of '73, '72 or '73.  
Raiskin:  Did you identify as a feminist then?  
Cohen:  No I didn't. I mean, I was beginning to, but I wouldn't have labeled 
myself then. Just this information and these experiences were 
coming in and I was probably more like a deer in the headlights 
than grasping it boldly.  
Raiskin:  What were your plans after you graduated college?  
Cohen:  Well, I was going to graduate school and that's how I landed in 
Eugene. I got into a  couple of graduate— Actually three graduate 
schools, and I wound in Eugene because Eugene had a Marxist 
Sociology Department. At the time Al Szymanski was a professor 
here. He was a Marxist sociologist. I think Mimi Goldman, when I 
came here, it might've been Mimi Goldman's first year here. She's 
retired now. Joan Acker was on sabbatical. Gosh, who else? I don't 
remember the names of other people, the other people.  I dropped 
out after a quarter because it was overwhelming and I realized I 
couldn't write. I  couldn't express myself in writing in the way with 
that one needs to do when one's in graduate school. I still have a 
block against writing to this day. But it was nonetheless a very 
powerful three months for me. Yeah, I just absorbed a lot. And it  
really, for me, it gave me a great framework an understanding, 
dialectical materialism did, and this is a kid who was from a small 
town in Virginia who read, I can remember on Sundays, after 
Sundays, well, after being— It was morning Sunday school. After 
being— We'd go over to Charlottesville. Well, actually, this was 
when I lived in Charlottesville. It must've been because I couldn't 
have been reading Ramparts Magazine  when I was thirteen  years 
old, but I can remember in Mincers, which was the university 
bookstore. Reading Ramparts Magazine  and reading all of these anti-
war articles and Sidney Hirsch, David Horowitz, who switched, 
who changed from a leftist to very reactionary person, and other 
people. That three months was pivotal for me.  
Raiskin:  What did you know about Eugene before you came here?  
Cohen:  It had people, just big alternative lifestyle. That's all I knew. I 
thought it was going to be pretty comfortable for me having come 
from a college town and we lived around the University  of 
Virginia. I mean, we lived in the university neighborhood. It just— 
Yeah.  
Raiskin:  When you came, what did Eugene look like?  
Cohen:  What did Eugene look like? Well, it was green and wet— I mean, I 
was up here at the university and I don't remember the downtown 
too much. I do remember we did, both Jane and I did go to 
Women's Press and got involved with Women's Press here because 
Jane in particular had the experience of Big Mama Rag, in Denver,  
and we knew we would meet feminists. I don't know if we called 
them that and like-minded  people, at Women's Press.  
Long:  And Women's Press published a newspaper?  
Cohen:  Published a newspaper. Yes. And it was at— We met at Third and 
Lawrence, the old building, it's still there. The other thing I 
remember about Eugene was the slugs, disgusting.  
Raiskin:  Could you describe Women's Press?  
Cohen:  Oh, wow. Describe Women's Press. Well. This is where my 
memory fails me. I remember going in to Women's Press and 
they're meeting the women and being certainly intimidated. These 
were people who had definite ideas about issues and some of the 
women that I met there, I still know. Yeah. I really— That's about 
all I can remember.  
Long:  Didn't they publish a newspaper that was actually called The 
Women's Press? 
Cohen:  Yes.  
Long:  Okay.  
Cohen:  Yes. 
Long:  So the press was called Women's Press  and then—  
Cohen:  Oh, yes. I'm sorry. Yes, that was the name of the newspaper and it 
came out, I don't know how often it came out. Maybe monthly.   
Raiskin:  What kind of articles— 
Long:  It was a feminist news— 
Cohen:  Yeah, it was feminist. It was a feminist newspaper. Articles about, 
gosh, probably from a feminist perspective about what was going 
on in the world. I can remember writing, I can't even— I remember 
writing an article with somebody about the speed— It was about 
the Speed Queen washer and it was about women and women's 
work and laundry and that sort of thing. So, its focus was women's 
work, women's lives. They dedicated, I  can remember— and of 
course I threw this away. One issue there was two— gosh, maybe 
you would remember this or know about this. There was a kind of 
counseling going on back then, therapy and I cannot remember the 
name of— They devoted one article— 
Raiskin:  Was it co-counseling?  
Cohen:  No, it was way before co-counseling. Radical therapy, I don't know. 
Thomas Szasz. They devoted one whole issue to that. I think the 
issues had themes and not all the time, but— 
Long:  Do you remember the women who ran it?  
Cohen:  Some of them, yes.  
Raiskin:  So you left school and so where were you living and where were 
you working?   
Cohen:  I was living up at twenty-fourth  and Columbia. And Jane moved 
out and moved down to Fourth and Adams actually, and a lesbian 
couple moved in with me. And this is when I was beginning to 
realize, geez, I was a lesbian. When I dropped out, I think I worked, 
I did, I worked at Willamette People's Food Co-op for, I don't 
know, six months or so. It was located at Twenty-fourth  and that 
street before Columbia— 
Raiskin:  Agate.  
Cohen:  Agate. In that little store place.  
Raiskin:  What was the food co-op like?  
Cohen:  What do you mean, we sold bulk  food, health food, natural foods, 
the people who ran it, we all ran it. There were two or three men, 
and it's interesting, I can remember the men, but I can't remember 
the women.  
Long:  So it was a store where— Was it a store where people would just 
walk to purchase things?  
Cohen:  Yes. 
Long:  The goods.  
Cohen:  Yeah.  
Long:  Okay.   
Cohen:  As much as I can remember. And then I got a job at Starflower and 
I worked at Starflower from '74 to '82 and then I left town.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe Starflower and what your first impressions were?  
Cohen:  Starflower was incredible then. I felt like I had arrived and sort of— 
It was full of very dedicated people. Debbie Glass and Charlie 
Glass and Margaret Cormier started it, along with, I want to say 
Mary Lawless. It was dedicated to a consensus decision making 
and feminism, which meant that women could do everything and 
work and learn non-traditional women's jobs. And it started out, or 
when I was there, people were doing everything.  I was working in 
the warehouse, I was truck driving, I was meeting every— Yeah, 
we were doing everything and strong women and we were all 
having fun and it was hard work. And then I sort of drifted 
towards the more of the business aspect of it and became a buyer 
along with Charlie Glass and then became the head buyer and was 
the buyer for years and years. That was great.  I mean, you bring in 
truckloads of grains, truckloads of juice or truckloads of cheese and 
go and visit the vendors as this representative of this feminist 
collective and deal with people on the one hand, on a professional 
level, on the other hand, just totally different than the rest of the 
world.  That was the good part. Plus certainly selling very good 
food. The collective meetings were hard though.  
Long:  Can you describe a typical meeting?   
Cohen:  Well, there was a lot of yelling and some crying and we had to— 
The process was consensus and that shifted after a while because 
consensus when you're running, I think consensus is hard when 
you're trying to do pretty much anything. But unless you all have 
the same goals and same ideas about it, the issue. They  were long, 
they were, I think, I believe although I could be wrong about this, 
we took turns leading the meetings and I think as the company 
grew or as the collective grew, you had more different types of 
people come in and with different ideas and that made it difficult. 
Also, people were sleeping with people and boy, that made it 
difficult. A lot of fun but difficult.  
Long:  Can you take a moment to describe some of the people you worked 
with? Who they were, what they were like?  
Cohen:  Oh gosh. Well, let's see. There were artists, there was a filmmaker. 
There were musicians, there was a band. There were, what, three or 
four people who played music. And it wasn't just women. There 
were guys in there, gay guys, faggots. And then there— Starflower 
herb company were two gay men, a couple, since died, from AIDS. 
And they were upstairs. They didn't want to have anything to do 
with us, although one of them was married. There were writers. It 
was a very— Many of the people were very creative. It was a very 
volatile place and it seemed like the center of the universe and we 
were very proud to be working there and I think somewhat 
arrogant as well. And some of that was from the fact that we were  
these bold out front feminists, lesbians, gay men. We were 
outsiders. We were outlaws and different.  
Raiskin:  What was it like going to the— Where were the farms that you 
would go get the food?  
Cohen:  Well, I can remember visiting the Posey's farm in Idaho. We bought 
beans from them and I can remember going to Wheatland and it 
was also in Idaho, bought wheat from them and then going down 
to Knudsen’s  outside of Chico or Red Bluff. Going down to the 
Rogue Creamery, which is still there, although owned by 
somebody because that's where we bought our rennet-less cheese. 
And that's actually how Starflower started. Debbie Glass had the 
creamery make rennet-less cheese and it was called [Vella's 
00:31:36] Creamery or what's his name, Bella ran it. She would take 
it around in her car and start selling it. And that's really the 
beginning of Starflowers Wholesale Foods. Here's another thing  
about Starflower company. We were part of a network of food co-
ops and food collectives. There was big or several collectives in the 
Bay area and there was co-op in Arcata, there were co-ops in 
Ashland and Cave Junction and there was a natural foods 
wholesale collective in Portland and in Seattle.  
Cohen: Do you remember Nancy Solomon?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hm [affirmative]  
Cohen:  I met Nancy Solomon when she was eighteen  years old and she 
was working in a  natural food collective in Portland. She was  
enamored of Connie and me, because we were these dykes. I think 
she— Anyway, yeah.  
Raiskin:  Were those other collectives also feminist?  
Cohen:  Well,  I think everybody was feminist, but I mean, this is what I was 
talking about. In the beginning, they were different currents going 
through the collectives. San Francisco was strongly, I think the San 
Francisco collective was strongly anti-racist leftists. There were 
certainly some people in the Starflower collective that were leftist, 
who came at the collectivity and the feminism with leftist filters. 
Portland, I honestly don't remember— the Seattle collective, I don't 
remember. But Seattle and that whole Northwest area had a history 
of Wobblies  and so I think a lot of the— Or some of the members of 
the Seattle collective identified as modern day Wobblies. And there 
was also a Back-to-the-Land movement within the food movement, 
not just— They were separatists and the people who lived on the 
land there, but there was  a big, not a big, but there was a Back-to-
the-Land movement and grow and eat regionally regional foods 
movement.  This whole modern farm to table movement is I think 
all young people think they've discovered something new. We 
thought that we had probably discovered something new with that 
Back-to-the-Farm or Back-to-the-Land movement and my hunch is 
it wasn't new. When we discovered it and it certainly isn't new 
now.  
Long:  Do you recall anybody— In the leftist organizations, was there any 
residual sexism? Did you experience any of that?   
Cohen:  It depends. Not as a member of Starflower, as a member of 
somebody in the leftist movement, in an anti-imperialist movement 
in Eugene and going to conferences. I mean, yes, those issues came 
up. And then later on,  when I lived in— This is far afield, but when 
I lived in San Francisco and was doing work with basically Jewish 
lesbians on peace in the middle East, I mean we experienced a lot of 
that. We were trying to work in coalition with a variety of different 
people and Palestinians and other leftist groups. And yeah, there 
were  a lot of issues there. Sexism and probably racism. I mean 
there's— Yeah.  
Raiskin:  How did you feel coming out as lesbian?  
Cohen:  How did I feel coming out as a lesbian? Great.  It was a relief. It was 
my true self. It is my true self. There was a lot of pressure I think in 
the Eugene community, the feminist community and the leftist 
community to— Maybe people put it on themselves to be a lesbian. 
And there were some who came out  and then went back in, but I 
mean for me it was just who I was and who I am.  
Long:  When did you come out?  
Cohen:  Well, in terms of years, I think 1974. So, when I was here.  
Raiskin: So you're working at Starflower and what was your social scene 
like outside of Starflower?  
Cohen:  Well, there was so much going on in  Eugene then. The social scene 
in Eugene was, there were bands, there was the Starflower band,  
Wallflower. But I also was in— leftist study groups  and we did 
political work. There were demonstrations and I mean, not all the 
time, but around various issues. Mostly, the war was over in '74, 
but oh gosh, there was— I'm blanking here. There were a ton of 
issues. Nicaragua, the Palestinian issue. And then of course there 
were the— What was it? The proposition 51? Was it 51? Yeah, I 
think— 
Long:  Referendum  51.  
Cohen:  The referendum? We were young and so there was just a lot to do. 
And it was, yeah, just— 
Raiskin:  Did you go dancing?  
Cohen:  Oh, yes. Went to The Riv Room. There was a place before The Riv 
Room called— Well, The Riv Room was there, called Scarborough 
Fair. Did anybody talk to you about that?  
Long:  No. Tell us.  
Cohen:  Oh gosh. I tell you, I can't remember, but it  was— Jesus, where was 
it? I think off of Eleventh, somewhere. There were dances there.  
Long:  Was it a gay bar?  
Cohen:  No, I don't believe so. But The Riv Room, I mean, everybody went 
to The Riv Room and I mean, God, it was a scene. With the chains 
and the red vinyl seats and drinking and dancing. It was a lot of 
fun and it was a lot of drama.   
Long:  What kind of drama?  
Cohen:  Lesbian drama, lesbian romance, drama. Somebody breaking up 
with somebody, seeing their ex there with somebody else, that 
stuff.  
Long:  I'd like to go back to Starflower briefly. Can you remember how 
much— Well, first of all, can you remember your interview with 
Starflower?  
Cohen:  No. 
Long:  You can't. Do you remember how much you were paid?  
Cohen:  Oh gosh. $600 a month at one point in time. And I don't remember 
when, but I remember it wasn't a lot of money. But we had lots of 
vacation and we had lots of food and we had medical and we had, 
we had vacation and then we had visiting your parents. So visiting 
your parents, you had a week or something like that to visit your 
parents and that was not considered vacation because it was 
always so hard, mostly hard and dramatic for people.  
Long:  Wait, wait, can we go back for a sec?  
Cohen:  Yes. 
Long:  So Starflower gave you time off, gave all the worker's time off to go 
visit their parents? 
Cohen:  Yes. Well, those who had parents who wanted to visit them. It was 
a separate time off than vacation. And that was because it was  
considered pretty hard on the individual to go see their parents and 
in many cases it was, in most cases it probably was.  
Raiskin:  So not to use your vacation time, for relaxation— 
Cohen:  Right, But yeah.  
Raiskin:  Interesting.  
Cohen:  Yeah.  
Long:  Can you describe a typical weekend in Eugene during that time?  
Cohen:  Oh. Well, working at Starflower I believe what it meant— some 
people had to work on the weekends. We weren't open, but if 
trucks came in, somebody had to go down and unload. Somebody 
had to go in on Sunday and load the trucks for delivery. But a 
typical weekend would be possibly going to a party or going to The 
Riv Room one night, if not two nights. People did other things. I 
mean, there were meetings, they were activities, people went to the 
snow. I mean— 
Long:  Were you involved in any of the softball teams?  
Cohen:  Softball teams? I was involved in the hippie league for a  while.  
Long:  The hippie league?  
Cohen:  Yeah, there was a league that had women and men and this and 
yeah, my team was Get a Grip and there were teams like the Say 
Hey Kid and Honor Willie Mays and Late for Supper and various  
names like that. And yeah, we would go out and play. There was a 
league commissioner who organized it all and would go out, get 
stoned  and play ball. I'll never forget this: Once my father came to 
visit me in Eugene. This was, no, gosh, I don't know. Well, in the 
mid-seventies. And oh it was fun and it was difficult negotiating 
my lifestyle with my father being there. But I did take him to one  of 
those games and oh God. First of all, there's all this marijuana 
smoke going around so people are smoking. I'm just sitting there 
with Dad going, "Oh God." And then this woman takes off her 
shirt, in the outfield, because she said it was hot and she just 
wanted to play without a shirt. And here's my father from Virginia 
and I was  just dying. I'm sure Daddy was actually enjoying it. But 
yeah. So if there was a lesbian league, I don't remember being a 
part of it.  
Raiskin:  Did you have a girlfriend at the time?  
Cohen:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  And did you live together?  
Cohen:  No, we lived down the street from each other.  
Raiskin:  And still up by up by Agate and— 
Cohen:  No, actually by that time I had moved down to the Fourth and 
Adams area.  
Raiskin:  So do you remember Mother Kali's?   
Cohen:  Yes. Gosh, thank you. They were down at— I mean, they were all 
over the place, but in one iteration they were just down the street at 
Fifth and Adams and we used to go there. We used to, I mean go 
there for poetry readings and just to buy books or just to hang out. 
Yeah. And there were various cafes too, around town that were— 
God, what was the name of that one? I forgot her. What's her 
name?  
Long:  Gertrude's.  
Cohen:  There was Gertrude's and then there was Book and Tea which I 
think it was in the building that Beppe & Gianni's is in now. And 
Book and Tea  were two women. Actually one of them, I saw her 
obituary in the paper recently. That was a great bookstore. I mean, 
Mother Kali's was too, but Mother Kali's was part of a community 
and Book and Tea was a little separate. And then what else? Yeah, I 
can't think of anything else.  
Raiskin:  Why did you leave Eugene?  
Cohen:  I was bored with Eugene. I wanted to be in the city. I wanted to live 
in San Francisco. I had a few friends down there. Some people I met 
because I had invited them. I was part of an organization that 
invited them up here for a workshop on the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict. And I felt at the time that I'd outgrown Eugene.  
Raiskin:  Can I back up and ask you another question, whether you involved 
with Baleboostehs?  
Cohen:  I was, but not until  I came back from the Bay area and I was— So 
they started up, I don't know when they started up, maybe in the 
'80s. And I mean, I wasn't here.  
Long:  What year did you move down to San Francisco?  
Cohen:  I moved down in '83.  
Long:  Okay.  
Cohen:  Down there, I was involved in— Well, the political work I did was 
with the Israeli-Palestinian peace in the Middle East, mostly with 
lesbian Jews, Jewish lesbians. Down there I became a CPA and so I 
had a very sort of compartmentalized life. But you could do— I 
mean it was easy to do that in San Francisco.  
Raiskin: Why?  
Cohen:  Because it was bigger and I didn't have a problem, I mean, if I'd 
had a problem with not being out at work, I suppose it wouldn't 
have been easy. But I mean my profession was so different than the 
rest of my life.  
Raiskin:  How did you get trained to be a CPA?  
Cohen:  How did I get trained? Well, I started being a bookkeeper up here 
at Starflower, in Starflower Botanicals. And I decided when I was 
down in the Bay area and I got full cycle bookkeeping jobs down in 
the Bay area and I decided I just wanted something— I liked the 
work, but I wanted something more interesting. So it was either  
going to become a CPA or get an MBA and it was sort of quicker 
because by that time I was thirty-one or my late twenties or 
something. Eighty-two, I was thirty-two. I sort of took the quickest 
route because I'd already had a degree. I took courses, accounting 
courses and sat for the CPA exam.  
Raiskin:  And what brought you back here?  
Cohen:  Well, I still had friends who were like family here. I knew just sort 
of economics really. I knew I— What would make me comfortable 
economically was to have a place of my own and to have that kind 
of security. And I couldn't get that down there. I knew eventually I 
would probably retire up here or retire around friends, just get out 
of the city. And also my friends up here were having babies and I 
wanted to be around them and I came back, have a house and I am 
very close to my friend's three boys who are now adults. One has 
just— He and his wife just had his second child and I'm their aunt.  
Raiskin:  Did you spend a lot of time with them when they were children?  
Cohen:  Yes. When I moved back here. Oh gosh. I was over there a lot. 
Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And who were you to them  in their lives? What kind of things did 
you do with them?  
Cohen:  I played with them a lot. We joked a lot. I went on weekend 
vacations with them. They consider me their aunt. I'm part of their 
family lore and history. There are stories about me and I have   
stories about them. I celebrate— Their dad's Jewish. I celebrate, 
they celebrate Hanukkah with me every year. I'm going to try to get 
a Passover tradition started with them. Now everybody's all over 
them. I mean, well actually they're all three still in the Northwest, 
so that's good. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Are you retired yet?  
Cohen:  Yes, actually September first was one year retirement.  
Raiskin:  And how was that?  
Cohen:  It's great. I worked at the university for twenty  years.  
Raiskin:  Can you just quickly tell us where you worked at the university?  
Cohen:  I was the Director of Fiscal Services for the School of Architecture 
and Allied arts. A lot of words.  
Raiskin:  And how was that work?  
Cohen:  I'm sorry.  
Raiskin:  How was that work for you?  
Cohen:  Well, when I first started working there after being at CPA and 
CPA firms, it was odd because there was no there there, there's not 
as much accountability, as financial accountability is I was used to. 
That part took some getting used to. It took some getting used to 
the whole sort of flow of students. I mean, I was used to working 
with— I was in small CPA firms, so you would work with small  
businesses and they would be there for years. But you had this sort 
of stream of students coming and going. Not that I worked with 
students, but it was odd, but I loved it and I love working in a 
higher ed institution. I loved the walking on campus, the diversity 
of people. Different races, just I would walk on, I mean you could 
hear different languages. I enjoyed going to lectures. That was 
stimulating and work was interesting. I mean, I was a budget 
director and that was, well, we never had enough money. I mean, 
you all know, there's never enough money. And I worked with 
some wonderful people. I worked with Robert Melnick for I don't 
know how many years? Nine years or so. And then Frances Burnett 
was the Dean. Oh gosh, just great.  
Raiskin:  Were you out at work?  
Cohen:  I mean, I wouldn't say I was out. Yeah, I would probably say I 
wasn't out at work. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you think it would be uncomfortable in your job?  
Cohen:  I think realistically, no, I mean on a personal level, yes, that's why I 
wasn't out. Plus, I mean it I haven't been in a relationship in a long 
time, so that whole— All of the conversations you have  and all of 
that, I didn't have those about my significant other or my partner or 
whatever. I mean, if I talked about any family, it was the boys. It 
was about Leon, Tim and Myles. And I think in my office it 
might've been uncomfortable for some people. I mean, there was  
one person whom I adore, very religious. Certainly not with the 
faculty— the faculty and the administration.  
Raiskin:  Were you involved in any committees or anything on campus that 
had anything to do with feminism or gay— Anything on campus.  
Cohen:  By the time I came back here and I got this job, I didn't want to be 
involved and I was burned out. I mean, nine years in a collective 
really, it takes another eighteen  years to recover. I also felt that a lot 
of the committees here, they were involved with the academy and 
it didn't affect me.  
Raiskin:  Were you involved still with lesbian community in Eugene when 
you came back?  
Cohen:  Well, when I came back— I came back in '92 and the community, it 
was very, very different. That  nine years. And this happened in San 
Francisco, too. I mean, well, the big thing in San Francisco was the 
AIDS epidemic, but there was a shift in sort of the defined lesbian 
community and it dissipated. People got older, younger people 
who came in didn't— The environment was different. I mean, part 
of— we created an environment, a community for ourselves for a 
number of reasons. It was very vibrant and alive and active, but it 
was also a means of survival. The generations before us possibly 
had communities, but there were a lot in bars and there was a lot of 
alcoholism  and partly because of this gener— All of the stuff that 
was going on in the '60s and '70s. We created a community that we 
were certainly more out and open. And I think that sort of began to  
dissipate in the '80s. In San Francisco, you could see the focus was 
on the AIDS epidemic. I don't know what was happening up here, 
but when I came back, there weren't— I mean, people had left, first 
of all, a lot of people left, but there weren't the organizations, there 
was Baleboostehs,  which was kind of beginning to flounder. People 
were, I don't know how you say it, getting on with it, doing 
different things weren't as focused on the lesbian community. Or, 
that was my perception. Anyway, I also came back as— I mean, I 
left. In the sense of lesbian community was an alternative 
community, at least in Eugene.  In San Francisco, it seemed like— 
And maybe, or that was the community I was in. I don't know 
about the university for instance. San Francisco, you had lesbians 
and just— I mean, there was more variety, class, race, social levels 
and so on. I came back and I didn't— I mean, I was not part of the 
alternative community anymore such that it was. I mean, I— 
Long:  Starflower had closed.  
Cohen:  It had closed.  I mean, none of those organizations were here.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember Measure 9? I think it was about right when you 
came back, in '92, '93.  
Cohen:  Yeah, vaguely.  
Raiskin:  This anti-gay measure that turned people out.  
Cohen:  Right. It turned people out, but I mean, it didn't create, well, I could 
be wrong about this, it didn't create— It turned people out. But  
were there communities of people here or organizations here like 
there were in the '70s to  fight it? I mean, honestly, I don't 
remember. I mean, what happened to me when I came back is I got 
involved in the synagogue and I was on the board and I was the on 
the finance committee and I was the treasurer.  
Raiskin:  And were you out as a lesbian doing that?  
Cohen:  People knew I was a lesbian. I mean, I didn't wear a badge that 
said, "Oh, by the way, I'm a lesbian. I'm a Jewish lesbian." But, 
yeah.  
Raiskin:  Did the synagogue feel like a progressive place?  
Cohen:  Yeah, it did. And I think I was more focused at that point in time on 
my Judaism and how to fit that into my life. That didn't come from 
just the sky. What happened is I— in San Francisco, there was— 
there are several now, but there was one gay Jewish synagogue. 
And I'm going to butcher the name if I say  it, so I'm not going to 
say it. Do you know— 
Raiskin:  [Bahabachelom 01:03:45]?  
Cohen:  No, I think that was over in the East Bay.  
Raiskin:  Sha’ar Zahav? 
Cohen:  Yes. And God, that was— I would go to High Holy Days there. 
That was so powerful. That was so powerful  for me because I had 
these two important parts of my life that I could combine and  
everything— I talked about how I compartmentalized my life. It 
was so important to go there, to be there, to recognize that. An  
aside:  In Charlottesville, my sister was the  first girl to be bat 
mitzvahed. And I was the second girl to be bat mitzvahed. Before 
that they were just bar mitzvahs.  That was in my background, but I 
had given that— I had wandered away because of my politics and 
so on. And I think I came back to it  specially after the breakup of 
the Soviet Union and and then, information about China and yeah, 
I now feel like I am really wandering in our conversations.  
Raiskin:  Well, we were sort of at your retirement. Do you see yourself 
staying in Eugene?  
Cohen:  Yes. For now. I mean, the two years before retirement, I was trying 
to sort out what I would do and where I would go. I've always been 
attached to Virginia, believe it or not. I think those people who— 
Many of us who are raised in Virginia have a strong sense of being 
a Virginian. And I still consider myself a Virginian. And part of that 
is the history. The revolutionary war history. Everybody thinks, 
"Oh, the civil war, oh Charlottesville." But there's such a rich 
history there that we all learn.  
Raiskin:  How did you feel during the Charlottesville— I don't know what to 
call that.  
Cohen:  The neo-Nazis— 
Raiskin:  The Nazi protest, yeah.   
Cohen:  Oh, I felt terrible. And the Robert E. Lee statue is two blocks away 
from the synagogue. And uh, so that happened whenever it 
happened, and I went, I've been back twice and I actually went to 
the synagogue and went to Friday night services there. Gosh, that 
was August after it happened and drove down the street. I mean, 
the statue which I passed, God knows how many times.  It was, like 
I said, two blocks away. And of course now there's a security guard 
outside of the synagogue.  
Raiskin:  Was the Jewish community frightened by that?  
Cohen:  I'm sure. I'm sure they were. I mean, there were people who went 
down to try to protect the synagogue. I don't know— I think I 
know one couple from the synagogue now, I went to Sunday 
school with him.  
Raiskin:  So you can imagine moving back there?  
Cohen:  I thought about it after my father died. My father died in 2009 and I 
was very close to him and I mean, he was ninety-one years old and 
my grief was for him, but I grieved a lot for the loss of home, the 
loss of place. That's important to me. And so picking up and going 
someplace. I mean, if I had enough money I would think about 
maybe the Bay area, but  honestly, this is home, this is place. The 
boys are within two hours. There are two babies up in Portland that 
want to be close to and I'll just travel to other places and I like 
standing in rivers and fly fishing. I love standing in rivers, there's 
just nothing like it. We're very fortunate here.   
Raiskin:  Where do you fly fish?  
Cohen:  I fly fish on The Deschutes, The McKenzie, The Rogue, a little bit 
the North Umpqua.  
Raiskin:  Do you fish alone?  
Cohen:  Oh, I have a fly fishing partner, Charlie, but I also fish alone.  
Raiskin:  It sounds meditative.  
Cohen:  Oh, it is. It's wonderful. And yeah, I like that and I like the beaches 
on the East coast. I like the  North Carolina beaches. Flowing water.  
Raiskin:  Do you have any thoughts about aging as a lesbian?  
Cohen:  Well, that's interesting. It's different now in a certain way. Aging as 
a single lesbian is thinking about— Well, it can be scary, but I have 
family, I call them my family of choice. And now lesbians can get 
married and have those companions, those, not that the— Well, 
being legally married does have certain advantages.  
Raiskin:  What's scary about aging as a lesbian?  
Cohen:  I can't tell what scary about aging as a lesbian versus aging, period. 
I mean, right now what's happening for me or the last few years is 
the whole aging process. I mean, it's like, "Oh, my God. Nobody 
told me about this. I didn't read about this." I can't really— as a 
lesbian, it's just the aging process and aging alone.   
Raiskin:  Can you imagine going into a retirement community or building, 
institution?  
Cohen:  No. I mean, there are lesbian senior communities. I have friends 
who are moving down to someplace in Apache Junction, which 
is— 
Raiskin:  Arizona.  
Cohen:  Which just— Well, Arizona sounds dreadful to me for many 
reasons, one of which is it's land locked. But, yeah, it's a whole 
moving into— 
Raiskin:  Even if it's lesbian community? 
Cohen:  Yeah. I mean that has a little bit more appeal, but right now, it's 
yeah, the whole community. I mean, I've never lived in an 
apartment. I've always lived in— I mean, in San Francisco, there 
were the town homes, but I— Oh, I like some space, some grass.  
Raiskin:  So if you can imagine somebody  watching this— 
Cohen:  What?  
Raiskin:  If you can imagine somebody's watching interview, somebody 
younger, maybe, is there something you could tell them having 
lived the richness of your life? Any advice you would give to a 
younger person?  
Cohen:  Wow. The advice I would give to a younger person. All these 
cliches come up. I think the one thing that I think about is that  
change will happen. Things change. I mean, I started out, I came 
out in '74, lesbians and gay men were outlaws. We were outlaws. 
And we were just pariahs. I mean, we were just— And now 
lesbians and gay men can get married, which honestly is wonderful 
on one level is, I mean, it's great, but it's bizarre. But that's the arc of 
change that's happened in my lifetime, in my adult life. And so 
that's what I think about, is change. It's the possibility is always 
there and change for good. The good.  
Raiskin:  So you're optimistic about the political future in the United States?  
Cohen:  No. No, I'm not. I think what I have read and what I have 
experienced of younger people is they are not so concerned about— 
well, educated, younger people— about who you sleep with, 
whether you're gay or straight. So on a certain level, I think that's 
gotten— it’s different now. It's better. But yeah, the rest of— Yeah, 
I'm not hopeful. It'd be interesting to see if the human race will be 
around in the next 150 years in this form. Gosh, and on that note— 
Long:  Well, was there anything else that you wanted to talk about, we 
didn't bring up?  
Cohen:  I don't believe so. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  It's been really nice talking to you.  
Long:  Yes, thank you very much.  
Cohen:  Well, thank—  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  