Long: This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Dianne  Dugaw  and Amanda 
Powell  on July 11, 2018 taking place in the University of Oregon 
Libraries’ recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’ Special Collections and 
University Archives and Professor Judith Raiskin  of the UO 
Department of Women's Gender and Sexuality Studies. Amanda, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project and 
that you give your permission to the university to preserve and 
make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Powell:  I do.   
Long: Okay. Thank you. And Dianne, please let us know if you agree.  
Dugaw:  I agree.  
Long: Thank you.  
Dugaw:  Thank you.  
Long: We thought we'd start out just with some basic questions. So 
should we start out with Amanda? If you could tell us where you 
were born, where you grew up in something about your early 
background.  
Powell:  I was born in The  Boston Lying-In Hospital for Women, which was 
the maternity hospital in Boston, in 1955, and grew up largely 
mostly in that area in the Boston area. I'm oldest of three kids in my 
little nuclear explosive family, and Dianne  and I were talking about 
our experience prior to this interview and one of the things that we 
realized that we have in common that I had never thought about 
was in relation to our feelings about women's only space and 
lesbian community and early experiences with attempts or the 
enthusiasm for lesbian gatherings and lesbian space was that we 
both went to girls’ high schools. So we had an experience of that in 
different ways. So I grew up in a family where I like Elizabeth 
Warren, the US Senator’s phrase about the ragged, bottom edge of 
the middle class. My parents were from working-class 
backgrounds, but very upwardly mobile and as members of the 
intelligensia. And they both went to college and education was all-
important. So I was a reader and I'm  a good student and there was  
a lot of family trouble. But also a lot of support for education and I 
was a scholarship kid at a really good girls’ high school and that 
was a great start for a lot of what I wanted to do.  
Long: Yeah. Thank you. How about you, Dianne? 
Dugaw:  Well, I'm the oldest of twelve  children and I was born in Seattle, 
Washington and I was raised in this very rural place called Cowlitz 
Prairie, which is south of Chehalis, Washington. It's a little bit west 
of Mount St. Helens. And my dad was the only doctor in the south 
half of the County, so he went on house calls in  a very old 
fashioned way and  we had— it was a little ranch, so we had horses. 
First we had sheep, then we had cattle and I went to school at a 
Catholic mission school from first grade through high school. And 
the high school part, well, it was very small. There were  eight kids 
in my eighth-grade graduation class and the grade school had three 
rooms and the high school had about six. The school was the high 
school was for all girls. And we lived across the field from the 
school.  So, we walked to school and then we also were— it was a 
Catholic school and my parents were very, very strongly Catholic. 
We went to church every day and so Catholicism was really 
important as was the school. And my parents were— my dad just 
read all the time, so we had a lot of emphasis on books and stuff. 
And I learned to read when I was about three, my mother taught 
me and then I taught my younger siblings. Anyway , it was an 
interesting way to grow up.  And also it was very strongly 
influenced by these Franciscan nuns who very independent. So  
when I graduated from high school, the smartest girls in the high 
school would become nuns.  
 And so I became a nun. And so I was a nun for three years in the 
Bay Area and then I also taught music at a Catholic school in 
Portland. Then I did some of my first few years of college as a nun, 
and then I left and went to San Francisco in the summer of ‘69, I 
guess it was, or ‘68. I also  I went to USF as a nun and so I hung  out 
in the Haight District and it was kind of a relief because they 
thought that was no weirder than anyone else. 
Powell: In full habit. 
Dugaw:  In full habit. Yeah. So it was great. So, I left and then I finished 
college at the University of Portland and then went on to graduate 
school in different— University of Colorado for music, UCLA for 
folklore and English lit, those kind of things.  
Long: What order were you in?  
Dugaw:  I was in Franciscan order and the priests at our mission church 
were  also Franciscans. So it was kind of Franciscan theology, which 
still is useful. I mean, it was a little bit like an early modern 
upbringing on the prairie. And then I went into the Middle Ages. 
Long: Did you— just for clarification, were you a novitiate?  
Dugaw:  Yes, I finished the novitiate, so it was three years I finished the 
novitiate, but then decided not to take my vows.   
Long: Okay.  
Raiskin:  What did you know of yourselves around your sexuality growing 
up? What was the environment for thinking about that when your 
childhood and young adulthood? Either of you.  
Dugaw:  Well, I really identified something that was queer when I was really 
young, like seven, eight. I also— was interesting that my family, 
they were extremely conservative and right-wing, but also growing 
up in the country, there's just a way that you just pick up bales of 
hay and stuff. And I also loved sports and my dad encouraged me, 
so I was the oldest and, and I kind of identified with  him. And so I 
wanted to be a football player and  it was really interesting that 
eventually I was sort of expelled from the family over politics in the 
early ’70s. But I remember for when I was about nine or ten for 
Christmas, I wanted a football outfit and they gave it to— Santa 
Claus brought a football outfit. And I was kind of in charge of the 
football in our neighborhood, which meant out in the sheep  field 
with me and Jimmy, my best friend and my little brother Danny. 
That was two people would be the offense and one person would 
be the defense. And it was kind of like that. But anyway, so I had a 
sense of myself— when I went to school, it was a shock to see this 
division between boys and girls.  
 I kind of wrestled with that uncomfortably. So then when I was 
about nine, I just completely became in love with my piano teacher 
Sister Marie Celine, she was just awesome. And also I really was 
entranced by the music. So I just played the piano all the time. And  
I think I was kind of uncomfortable with the way that school was 
organized. So, I actually played the piano through recess to avoid 
going to recess and stuff. And so that was a big influence I think 
for— I mean, there was just a way that the idea of  being in a 
women's context was not strange or there was just— and there was 
a kind of capability about— even my mother who could have run a 
small country— so there was some kind of— and there was a 
resilience about being on that little prairie and the way  that rural 
Pacific Northwest culture works. There's some really interesting 
way that being queer in a rural context is— in a way it's restrictive, 
in another way, people were— everybody went to church and I 
don't know, there was just a way of absorbing weird diversities  in a 
way that was sort of like the early modern era, I think or the way I 
picture it. There was a way of absorbing diversities and watching 
cows and horses and sheep and rabbits get on with each other.  
 And if you're paying attention, it's  not completely strange to 
picture things queer  if you're really paying attention. But also then 
once I got older because of the political sort of charge  to it, it wasn't 
okay. I felt shame, guilt, confusion, you know, not nothing I was 
told helped me think about how to identify in any way. So that's 
what the early upbringing was. And then I think I wanted to go to 
San Francisco. I did not want to go back. I was afraid of going back 
to the prairie and also it was interesting, my parents, neither of 
them actually went to college. So that was another reason for going 
into the convent because my dad went and became a doctor sort of 
through the GI bill, not, he didn't really— and my mother, they  
couldn't afford college, so she became a nurse. So they were very 
educated, but they were educated not in the way of my being able 
to picture how you exactly went to college from that prairie. 
Long: I'm starting to imagine what it might have been like in your 
household with so many children. You must have been your 
mother's helper with the other children as they came along.  
Dugaw:  Oh, yes. 
Long: And it must have been time consuming.  
Dugaw:  Yeah, it was time consuming and it was interesting. It was sort of 
like growing up in the army or something I suppose, or but, like I 
remember bottle-feeding my brother who's seven years younger 
than I am, so I was seven and he was being bottle fed. I mean, I 
remembered that. So childcare was part of it and we had these 
animals and also it was very organized. When we got enough kids, 
we started out with croquet and then we had to switch to baseball 
and then we had to go to volleyball as there came more and more 
people and also— 
Powell:  Charts for everything.  
Dugaw:  Yeah, we had charts. We had upstairs cleaning charts and barn 
charts and yard charts. And it was really organized and some 
people, older kids were in charge of younger kids and getting their 
socks on and getting to church on time. And it was very organized 
and in a way it was interestingly diverse because the other thing is  
that my parents brought in people, so some of my siblings are 
adopted and became multi-racial and exchange students from 
South America and kids from the school who didn't have a place to 
go at Christmas. So it became— it had an interestingly variable 
diversity  to the family, underneath this very sort of paradoxically 
totalitarian structure.  
Raiskin:  From the prairie to the city.  
Powell:  Well, yeah, I'm kind of a suburban-easter, but and then part of the 
time was small town on the North shore of Boston. The young 
people should know the 1950s  were a terrible time. It was just a 
terrible time. Gender roles were so segregated. I mean, it's just so 
oppositional and defined and it was absurd and we were going to 
fit in with the, not just the middle class, but the upper-middle class. 
So, I had the white gloves experience and the little hats and a 
special voice that I was supposed to use and for important 
occasions and fit in. And I remember from where we lived, I 
must've been about seven or eight and I had braids and I remember 
being in front of the mirror and pulling my braids back and 
thinking I could be a boy. All the boys had crew cuts then and the 
girls had long hair. But what's the difference? It was like that old 
poster where the two kids are, "Oh, that explains the difference in 
our salaries." It was just, "What is the difference here?" There's no 
difference. My best, best friends were girls, but my best friends 
were boys, and we played cops and robbers, cowboys and Indians. 
I had braids, I was always the Indian, but we palled around.   
 So that's an experience I remember as important. I remember a 
dream I had in that same place when I was seven or eight . No, I 
was, at the most and my mother and I were in a place by a lake and 
there was a sort of a ceremonial space  that was a sort of a 
boathouse also and there were these young women in white robes 
and there was chanting and there was an older woman guiding 
them. And it was very beautiful and very solemn, but creepy. And 
they were walking down to the lake and they were walking on into 
the lake and they just kept walking into the lake and they went 
under the water.  
 And I said, "Why are they doing that?" And they were dressed in 
these beautiful white, long gowns and, and it was very deeply 
distressing. And the older woman said, "Because that is what 
they're supposed to do. That's what they are here for." And so those 
were some early flags that I was thinking, this doesn't make any 
sense. A lot of things didn't make any sense. And it's very, very 
useful to be a young queer person as far as developing a capacity 
for critical thinking. So as we all know, because a lot of things that 
they're telling you simply aren't true and don't make any sense. 
And, but as far as what I had to go on, I mean, I was slow to 
develop, so I didn't start explicitly and knowledgeably falling in 
love with women or other girls until I was about fifteen. So by that 
time there was a tiny bit of a context for it, by about 1969, '70 
maybe. And, but what I knew was the diaries of Anais Nin  and that 
she had gone out dancing with June. I mean, there wasn't much.   
 And I had Mary Barnard's translations of  Sappho. That was pretty 
much what I— there  was talk and somehow I got myself— at that 
point  I was in high school at this girl's school, but at the girl's 
school was anyone talking about lesbianism? "No." And, I got 
myself into Cambridge, Massachusetts, and I went to the Daughters 
of Bilitis organization. And now I know how those women must 
have felt when it's like, "Oh, we've got a live one," when this young 
fifteen  year-old turns up, but I just wanted to find out about it. 
They were so nice and I— 
Raiskin: How old were they?  
Powell:  They were really old, I mean, I don't know if they were twenty  or 
forty, I don't know. They were really old. They were grownups. 
There was a poster and it was two women kissing and the caption 
was, "Oh, do not call me mirror." The idea being— the thing I 
remember was so awful about the 1950s in the early ‘60s was, I 
mean the rigid roles for people, but the psychology where there 
was something really— and women's psyches were so fraught and 
there was always trouble lurking. And if you questioned anything 
and the movies that reflected that and I think that poster was about 
the idea that, how could you— about homo-sexuality and how 
could you be loving someone who's the same as you, that there's no 
difference. It's a failure to individualize and properly go through 
your different Freudian cycles.  
 Anyway, so then I had crushes. I had an early— my first boyfriend, 
I really had a crush on his mother and in fact his whole family, but I  
really, especially his mother and then when I really  fell for— I 
never know where to say girl or woman— a girl at school. I 
remember sitting late at the kitchen table at my house and because I 
was not a boarding student, I was a day student. Which is slightly 
lower class and thinking, "Oh, well I must be a lesbian. Oh, I see. 
I'm a lesbian." And I went on having boyfriends because I didn't 
know how to do being a lesbian, but I thought I must be a lesbian.  
Raiskin:  How did you feel about that?  
Powell:  Well, my very first feeling was just like relief, like clear. "Oh, I see. 
I'm a lesbian." After that, it was a lot murkier because I didn't know 
how to do it, but right then the fresh thought was good, it was like, 
"Oh, I get it."  
Long: How old were you again?  
Powell:  About fifteen. 
Raiskin:  Fifteen? 
Powell:  Yeah. So there was that. I started reading all the, I mean, I guess I 
read everything I could find by women. And then when I went to 
college and there weren't any women's studies classes, but there 
were elsewhere, then I started organizing for women's studies and 
just taking every course on women that I could and— 
Raiskin:  And where was that?   
Powell:  Yale. And I became aware that I was having— that it was easier to 
have— if you had a boyfriend— well, that was it. So I went from a 
girl's school to Yale in the very first years of women having been 
admitted. So women were a real minority. I thought it was more 
interesting and it would be a good contrast, but it was a terrible 
place for me. But I did have wonderful friends and wonderful, 
some wonderful professors when the few women that were 
teaching women's studies courses and— it was easier to have a 
boyfriend— that took care of that. That slot was filled and you 
could present the boyfriend, but so that was hard on the 
boyfriends. It wasn't fair. And I wasn't very good at it until— and 
then when I was in college I started coming out finally after the last 
I gave it the college try and then I gave up with heterosexuality and 
came out and because I'd been already going and spending all my 
time at the women's center and already going to the meetings of the 
fledgling lesbian group and they just said, we've been waiting for 
you. Oh, good.  Welcome. And going to the bar.  
Long: What year was that?  
Powell:  I graduated in 1977. So, 1976. Yeah. So that some more familiar 
profile of lesbian coming out and so forth.  
Raiskin:  And what brought you both to Oregon or into Eugene?  
Powell:  I always say love and a job. 
Dugaw:  Yes. Well, I had been, I finished at UCLA and then I had been 
teaching at the University of Colorado and then I had a faculty  
fellowship to teach and do research at Harvard. And that was when 
I met Amanda and we fell in love, really. I mean, I had been with 
women since high school really, sexually, and then I was kind of 
trying to sort it out and I didn't have as much information as you 
would in the city. I sort of was trying to figure it out on my own. 
But by the time I went to Harvard, I had been— the closet  was a big 
part of my experience with women. And by the time I had been 
sort of in that closety  way known as a  lesbian to some  people, but 
not others when I was at Colorado, but I wasn't with a person, a 
woman, wasn't with a partner or spouse. But then when I was 
getting really sick of the closet, and so actually when I went to 
Harvard, I just decided I was going to be out about being 
lesbian/queer whatever— the whole thing. And I also was never 
quite sure how to think about it. But anyway, I was there. We fell in 
love. I had been teaching at Colorado and I thought— I had a book 
at Cambridge, I had a bunch of articles. 
Powell:  Cambridge University Press. 
Dugaw:  Cambridge University Press and I thought they were being a little 
slow about the tenure deal and also I—took me  so— I had such a 
hard time finding a job that I kind of every fall applied for jobs just 
to see what was happening, including fellowships and such. But 
anyway, so, but the Colorado— I had training at UCLA that was 
really clearly both early modern eighteenth century British culture 
and literature and Anglo-American folklore, British and American 
folklore and Colorado didn't have a program. Also, I'm from this  
part of the world. So I had always had this sense in my career that I 
wanted to have an actual folklore program to work with students 
and have not just the occasional class. So anyway, so there was a 
job that came up and also I was just in the habit of— and I thought I 
wasn't going up for tenure soon enough or one thing would be 
either. And so I applied for a job and I actually got a few 
interviews, but I was interviewed here and it was a good fit,  I think 
because of the Folklore Program here.  
 And also I think there were other reasons that I was a candidate 
that a kind of fractured department might be able to agree upon. So 
anyway, I came out and I did the whole job interview thing. And in 
the course of the interview I was asked “Is there anything that if we 
don't do it, you won't come here?” And it was, and I was like, 
“Excuse me?“ And it was at that point that the then department 
head said, ”Well, this is where you can talk about who you'll be 
discussing coming to Oregon with.” This  was about February, I 
guess, of 1990. So it was early in the history of that kind of thing. 
And so— and we were really madly in love and trying to figure out 
what in the world was going to happen— 
Powell:  Madly and newly in love. 
Dugaw:  And somewhat  newly in love.  
Raiskin:  Can we back up one  moment? Where did you meet and how did 
that happen?   
Powell:  We met when Dianne  arrived at Harvard for a yearlong— she had 
a research and teaching fellowship and I had a job at Harvard, not a 
teaching job, but I worked as an editor with a small program that 
was based at Harvard and I edited materials in various languages 
for that program. And we met at a friend's party, Labor Day. So it 
was early. Dianne  had just arrived and we had a long conversation 
in which we discovered that we both research, I researched 
sixteenth  and seventeenth  century Spanish and Latin American 
nuns’ writings. And Dianne  had completed her book on early 
modern English ballads about cross-dressing women. And  so she 
worked in the long eighteenth  century, which we all know is really 
the seventeenth  century, primarily, that being the most important 
period that there is. And so we— and we talked and we both loved 
poetry and she worked on ballads and she was a singer and we 
both love music and we both like to sing and we both like folk 
music. And it was kind of uncanny; that was how we met.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. So, and I had been committed to being out, partly because 
my work was sort of— it was transgender. Basically, it was these 
women, these really interesting ballads  and stories about women 
who passed as men  and the heroism of a woman dressed as a 
soldier. And it was basically, I mean—it was a queer— it was a big 
queer space that I was working in. So, in that sense it was in a way 
that was an opportunity to be out as well because of my work. But I 
also just was kind of done with the closet thing, which I think is— 
it's just wonderful. It's not happening now. Anyway. I had asked 
Amanda if there was before I went for these— I also had an  
interview it in Dallas. But anyway, I asked her if there's anything 
she wanted to know about Oregon.  
 And so she had interest in teaching poetry and she had interest in 
teaching Spanish and she had interest in the Comp Lit  program. So, 
I just told the department head, "Oh, well, there's this woman in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and she has three questions and she has 
three areas of interest about Oregon." She would like to know if she 
might be able to teach poetry in the English department. She's a 
poet, has a master's from BU. She's fluent in Spanish and has 
worked on Spanish literature, could she teach Spanish? And she's 
interested in the Comp Lit  program. Anyway, I just said that and 
eventually when it came to the phone calls to negotiate— then what 
was really good is that the negotiation happened so that Amanda 
had a separate negotiation. Now, part of it too is that— - it was 
kind of a tenured position, so they were a little more amenable to 
thinking, well maybe we can talk the higher ups into hiring both of 
these people, but also Romance Languages had worked on—they 
had a translation emphasis and the chairman of Romance 
Languages at that time was really enthusiastic for translation and 
also for poetry. And he— I don't know, somehow  they said, “Well 
wait, maybe this is a good thing.” Now, the other thing, too, is you 
can get two women cheaper than you can get a man and a woman. 
But it was under the presidency of Myles  Brand. And he had sort of 
opened some things up around queer/gay women.  
Powell:  And he had just issued a kind of fiat saying that we were going to, 
University of Oregon is going to actively support couple hires right 
at that time; we have trouble, we've lost some possible candidates 
because their spouses—And their spouses couldn't find jobs in 
Eugene. The job market was particularly bad at that time in Eugene 
also. So, he— and he had said “spouses” and then— this is how—
we were told: faculty came back and said, “What do you mean by 
spouses?” And he said, "Well, partners." That had just happened 
and was the context for these department heads thinking openly 
and creatively about this.  
 Also the fact that Dianne  was being brought in not with tenure, but 
in with an understanding that her tenure was there was going to be 
a process for tenure, but it was going to follow immediately and be 
expected based on her work. And I was hired at the time as a 
visiting instructor. So the visiting part had to be renegotiated and 
changed. And I was the trailing spouse, the partner hire. So it was 
very clear in that way. But it is true that Romance Languages got 
interested in, I mean, asked for my materials and I sent them and 
got interested in me on the basis of just how— also having some 
courses in translation— and the person who had been teaching 
them had just left. And so there was— it just worked.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. There was a lot— 
Powell:  Felt like  it was meant to be.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. And there was this kind of opening. And—  
Raiskin:  Did you experience or hear any pushback about your being couple 
like spouses?  
Powell:  Almost none, very little. And the people— I mean, I remember 
sitting down at a meeting, it was the first time I was— because I 
hadn't gone through— I didn't have a campus interview and stuff. I 
was interviewed on the phone to see if my Spanish was good 
enough. I thought, I could just put someone else,  my friend who's 
sitting here with me on the phone, but who's a native speaker. But I 
didn't, I spoke myself. So, I was meeting people when I'd already 
been hired and that was interesting. And I was sitting in a meeting 
of the Spanish sector within the Department of Romance 
Languages. And the woman next to me said something like, “Now 
who did you say your husband is?” And I said, "My partner, she—
", and but she was just embarrassed. ”I'm so sorry. I'm not this way. 
I don't want you to think this of me.” I mean, it was like that.  
Long: It seems like it was a good time to come because just a year before 
in 1989 Myles Brand had set up the Task Force on Lesbian and Gay 
Concerns.  
Dugaw:  That's, yeah.  
Powell:  That was part of this context in this awareness.  
Dugaw:  The awareness.  
Powell:  Burgeoning awareness.   
Dugaw:  I wouldn't say that— I mean, in my department, I felt some—you 
know,  “Who is this person?” Definitely. I've always felt that, “Who 
is this person?” But it wasn't actually new to me because I've 
almost always had a kind of resistance to my way of picturing 
queer. I mean, when I was at UCLA doing this dissertation on  the 
cross-dressing women, I— the feminists wouldn't be on the 
committee. It wasn't a woman's topic. So my sense of the closet or 
feminism, I mean, now I also grew up in this family where South 
Americans were coming in and out. And I mean, so I had a kind of 
a weirdly ad hoc queerness in my ability to say, ”Well, shouldn't 
there be a woman on my committee?” “No, this is not a feminist 
project.” So anyway, so in that sense— 
Powell:  There was that little problem of heterosexual feminists accepting  
lesbian and queer and seeing— and seeing what they were seeing, 
when those materials and projects  were before them. 
Dugaw:  Yeah. And a kind of rural cowgirl, farm girl, football player “Well, 
this is what it looks like to me,” hitting academia. I mean, I've 
always had  that. I'm from a different culture.  
Powell:  And then also, I mean, frankly, the Romance Languages 
department is more cordially welcoming in style than an English 
department, for the most part— just is culturally.  
Long: When you came to campus, did you— were there other lesbians on 
the faculty that you connected with that reached out to you?  
Powell:  Yeah, right away.   
Powell:  We had breakfast with Mary.  
Long: And that’s Wood, Mary Wood.  
Powell:  And  Marilyn Farwell, and who’s the other person? And we had just  
had the night before Barbara  May and Cynthia Stockwell had taken 
us out to dinner and we both got the worst food poisoning. It was 
terrible. Then we had this breakfast where the lesbian colleagues 
were kindly inviting us and we were at the Glenwood and we  said 
could I have some weak tea and maybe I'll have a little toast?  
Dugaw:  Burnt toast.  
Powell:  No butter, please. Kind of pale. It was so nice of them to invite us 
and I don't think we felt we could tell them. You want to make a 
good impression, probably. They were  probably wondering what is 
the matter with us. But call Mary and say that, by the way, that's 
what the matter  with us. 
Dugaw:  Well, also, we didn't how to be out and the thing is being hired that 
way– we also felt really happy about it, relieved about it and we 
felt it was part of our job to be out. And so we just were like out 
and trying to learn how to do it and how to teach people how to do 
it and how to coach them  how to act right a little bit.  
Powell:  And always, especially for the  students, but with this awareness 
that the lack of anyone to see, I mean not anyone. I mean there was 
Gore Vidal. 
Dugaw:  Yeah. Allen Ginsberg.  
Powell:  And so, and you thought it about people or maybe they whispered 
it to you or— and so we wanted to get out of the whispering and 
out of the closet. And we felt, I've remembered—we felt it as a great 
privilege. I mean, it was a privilege. It was one of those situations. I 
feel that way now about retiring and having a pension. In our 
world, this is a privilege.  This is the way it should be. Everyone 
should have this. But in our world, this is a privilege. So I feel now 
like the State of Oregon is giving me a grant to continue my writing 
and my research on lesbian poets of the seventeenth  century and 
that kind of  thing. And at the time we felt, okay, we've experienced 
this thing as quite normalized, relatively speaking that  is quite 
unusual. We were the only academic— we were the only lesbian— 
I think there was another gay couple somewhere that people knew 
about. But at that time we were the only lesbian couple that anyone 
we knew knew about in the United States hired as a couple. And 
everyone should have this if that's their situation. So we get to live 
this, so we need to share it.  
Dugaw:  Well, and also when I was— when  I went to Harvard and I 
thought, Oh, my gosh! I'm from the prairie and I'm teaching at 
Harvard and I'm going to be out. And it just felt— and my book is 
accepted at Cambridge University Press, holy skamoly! And so one 
of the things I discovered is that there you are in this bastion  of 
enlightenment and rational thinking and open-minded, whatever, 
progressive, this and that who think around every corner. But the 
people that I was open with, like even with the  faculty groups, 
were so grateful because at that time, all the straight people knew,  
they must know some queer people somewhere, but they didn't 
know who they were.  
Powell: Or you couldn't talk about it. 
Dugaw:  Or you couldn't talk about it, or you couldn't out people or you 
couldn't— or maybe there— shshshsh [whispers]— it was that 
closet thing. So, they were so grateful that I just said, ”Yeah, I'm a 
lesbian, I'm queer.” And then I brought Amanda to everything and 
then I said, and I just said, I just was  out. And people were really 
grateful. And that is a really interesting thing about our experience 
at Oregon with regard to the ballot measures and the politics here 
in those first few years as well, is the service  it is to be out there and 
learn how to do  it.  
 I kind of learned  this with my parents too, because they didn't act 
very well. The first few lovers— they just didn't. And they— And I 
had this realization, once I had been queer and trying to also be a 
member of the family for a few decades and after being thrown out 
of the family, arguing over Ferdinand and Imelda  Marcos of the 
Philippine Islands and politics of the 1970s, but anyway, I realized 
that when people are phobic, they panic and don't know how to act 
and they, and so they don't do the right thing. I mean, sometimes 
people are just plain hateful. But actually, most people who don't 
know what to do if they think there's some horrible thing in front of 
them, they just freeze. So, I actually told my parents how to act. I 
didn't want to know what they thought.   
 I didn't want to hear. I don't want— I didn't want to be in their 
heads. I didn't ever want to go there. But I told  them how to talk 
with Amanda when I introduced her to them, I said, ”Well, no, this 
is how you, I want you to act. And I just got it clearer about how to 
pay attention. I said, ”Well, you ask her about her family and you 
pass her the peas  and you remember her birthday and you put it in 
your calendar.” And just help them know what you do. 
Powell: Whatever you do for the other in-laws— 
Dugaw:  You do for her and— 
Powell:  —you do for this one. And when— this was hard for them, and 
when somebody comes to the door and you introduce her as my 
partner and when you're introducing the other in-laws.  
Dugaw:  And they could  figure out how to do it. And as long as — I didn't 
tell them any— nobody has to ask why. Apart from that, I want 
you to— this is the way to behave. And so some of it too is to— as I 
had to learn how to be an out gay, queer, lesbian person and I had 
to learn how to best help the phobic people  behave and not take it 
on. If it's their problem, it's their problem and just be really clear 
about not having to save the world or get in people's heads, but just 
do the right thing and be out there and be active.  
Long: If you wouldn’t mind backtracking a bit and tell us first, Dianne, 
and then Amanda, tell us what it was like when you came out to 
your families?   
Dugaw:  Well— 
Long: And what year how old were you and what year?  
Dugaw:  Here's the thing. I don't, I heard that I was outed from my siblings, 
so I'm not sure.  
Powell:  And it probably did have to do with, ostensibly, Ferdinand  and 
Imelda Marcos incident where  that was the stated subject at  which 
Dianne  was expressing the wrong views and therefore was no 
longer welcome in the family. 
Dugaw:  And however it wasn’t good for the little kids, but I'm not sure.  
Powell:  But it's unknown whether that was in fact the result of someone 
saying something to someone that got passed on.  
Dugaw:  Yeah, I'm not really sure. I mean, I think that by the time l was with 
this woman named Frankie, it was kind of an unspoken— I wasn't 
really out about talking about it until about 1983. I mean, because 
the thing is because my parents were so to the right of anyone 
you've ever known, you don't want to talk to them about a lot of 
things. My family was good at playing volleyball and they're very 
loving, but you have to, it's about doing things, not talking and 
thinking about things. So— 
Long: Well, what about your siblings? Did you come out to them?  
Dugaw:  Yeah, I think so. Kind of. But I was the most out when I figured this 
all out finally by 1989. And that was when I thought about it and  
said, “Wait a minute, this is what has to happen. It  has to be out. 
We have to talk.”  But how— 
Powell:  But it wouldn’t have  been  news to anyone in your family at that 
point. 
Dugaw:  No, it wouldn't.  
Powell:  But it became explicit, and conversable. 
Dugaw:  Yeah. And it became conversable as, “This is my partner, she's 
invited, too” and talking about it in terms of being a spouse.  So, 
there was a long time of controversy and I actually think— we had 
a custom  in my family once I had left the convent, that my younger 
brothers and sisters, not every one of them, but a lot of them would 
get to come when they were about fourteen or fifteen and they got 
to come and visit me wherever I was, L.A. or Colorado or wherever 
and go on a camping trip or something. So, it was kind of the big 
sister thing and I think I was like already in the ‘70s with gay 
liberation, women's liberation, women's music, all that. I was kind 
of out to the younger kids maybe, in the sense that I would— I just 
don't remember exactly, but it might've been taking them into these 
contexts and it may  be that's what somebody told my parents.  
Raiskin:  Are any of your siblings  gay?  
Dugaw:  Nope.  
Powell:  Defying  statistics.   
Dugaw:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  What about your relationship with your family?  
Powell:  I was going to say, the question is— do you— did you hide your 
record albums? Did you hide your books? Did you turn the books 
to face the other? when family came to visit. I remember a 
conversation with my mother in which probably around that time 
when I was about fifteen  my mother who adored me and taught 
some— I can't remember what sparked a conversation about 
lesbians and she— my mother said it would be better to be dead 
than to be one of those women. And I remember another 
conversation where actually I was a high school student, and I was 
dating a man, young man who was African American. It was a 
Harvard student. And that was fine, but not, if I was— it was like 
these little lines and anyway, so I was talking with my mother 
about it. She didn't— we had a kind of family benefactor and that 
she didn't want to know about this. And I just remember, I'm not 
sure what— I know what I was thinking. My mother said 
something like, ”Well, I just don't want you to limit yourself. I don't 
want you to get, I don't want you to go down that road.” And I was 
saying, “What road? I just see a big field. I just see a big field, it's a 
big empty field and I don't want to be assigned to a rut, when 
there's a big field.”  
 But, I have to tell you that I'm an alcoholic and I was killing myself 
with drinking through my— the early stages of my brilliant career. 
And after I graduated from college and on the one hand I was  
really driven. And on the other hand I was really lost because I was 
drinking a lot, I come by it honestly, genetically, it's the long 
dynasty of alcoholics, both sides of the family. I had to quit, so I 
had to get  into recovery. And so I had been living in Spain. I had 
gotten a grant to go and live in Spain and I was researching these 
weird nuns from the sixteenth  and seventeenth  centuries. And 
working by day in the libraries and archives. And at night I was 
working with these different women's groups that had, because the 
dictatorship just ended, and different leftists and feminist groups 
were just coming out of literal hiding, clandestinity, every single 
week. And I helped during that year that I was there, I helped 
organize the first lesbian and gay march in Madrid,  among other 
things that I did. And I was also drinking myself to death. And so 
when  I came back I had— I mean,  thank goodness I was able to 
deal with that and get into recovery. And so I had to have a 
conversation with my mother saying, “I'm an alcoholic and I'm a 
lesbian.” And her answer was “No, you can't be.” 
 And she wanted to— and I was living in the Boston area and that's 
where my family is, it was, and she wanted to have lunch with me 
every week and get together frequently and talk a lot. And I 
couldn't be either of those things. And of course, at that point in my 
development those— that was absolutely, I mean, I was coming 
out, out , out, out, out,  and getting sober. So, that was really, really  
rocky. But one of the things— basically, I divorced her. That's what 
it felt like. I mean, it was that— it was brutal, it was awful. And she 
let me know how brutal it was. But she got help on her own  
independently. She went into  therapy herself and got someone  else 
to talk to about it. Anyway, completely, completely came around. 
There was also a man in the early ’80s. There was a man in her 
church who had— was a respected member of the church 
community forever and was married and had three daughters. And 
he came out, which was incredibly brave and that— and it was an 
Episcopal church.  
 And so like good Episcopalians, they formed a study group and 
they met and it was the very beginning of the AIDS epidemic. And 
so they, how they did that was—and it was very much in honor of 
him and figuring out how to continue to have him as a member of 
this congregation. And so they started— it also galvanized them to 
start working on AIDS, their attitudes and forming themselves. So 
anyway, so that was in that all part of that period of time. Well, 
that's what I remember about that. And yet still— and I went to 
work in one of the feminist women's self-help health collectives in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts and which was mixed lesbian and 
straight women and mixed race and mixed class.  
 And so all of this was very central and explicit and yet, then as I 
went on and I had to get jobs where you could actually support 
yourself and stuff, there was still that semi-closet and a few people 
who knew and some people who didn't that, through much of the 
‘80s, it just got to be cumbersome and hard to figure out how to do. 
So yeah, it was a great relief to be here and be really completely 
out.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. You both talked about teaching people how to be, and I think 
Dianne, you were  connecting that with the activist work around 
these ballot measures that you confronted when you came to 
Eugene. Can you tell something about what that was like? You 
came just around some of those measures?  
Dugaw:  It was, yeah, it was very shaping for us because we were out and 
then we got here and then it was the second of the anti-gay ballot 
measures, which was Measure 9. And right away we were—I don't 
remember if both of us were on the task force initially, but 
definitely— 
Powell:  Actually, you and were and I tagged  along.  
Dugaw:  Yeah, the president's Task Force— 
Long: —on Lesbian and Gay concerns.  
Dugaw:  —on Lesbian and Gay Concerns. And so right away, one of the first 
things— we worked with Dom Vetri, Harriet Merrick, Hank Alley, 
Dick Rahm, Cheyney Ryan. 
Long: Sarah Douglas.  
Dugaw:  Sarah Douglas. Yeah.  So, and so one of the first things we did was 
to start the interSexions. 
Powell:  Except  we didn't call it  that yet that year, but it was— we had some 
kind of scholar—. We said, “Let's do an academic thing on this 
topic.” We brought George Chauncey out, who's a historian who  
had not yet— I think he hadn't yet published Gay New York, but he 
was publishing a  lot of things on the history of homosexuality.  
Dugaw:  So, that became something that we did. And the one that was the 
most—well, 1992 was that one, and it was the first one, and then 
1993 we really put something together to try to educate the whole 
community. And it was— we got a lot of support from the 
president's office. It was on that task force and we brought in four 
people and they were big-name people and in fact they were 
there— we looked them up. They're all still on Wikipedia. Yeah.  
Powell:  There— 
Dugaw:  It was a great— but among the organizing things that was really 
important to us at that time was to try to get the university and the 
town— 
Powell:  Together. 
Dugaw:  —Together. So it wasn't just a closety-thing at the university. And 
that was— it was a lot of work, but it actually worked, it worked  
really well, I think partly because of the pressure of these anti-gay 
ballots and how Springfield passed one and that really woke some 
of the— I mean, it wasn't a big surprise to anybody who's gay or 
queer or lesbian, but the straight people were shocked.  
Powell:: Yeah. It didn't— Springfield voted in, right before Measure 9,  
Springfield voted in— I think it was about teachers in the schools.   
Raiskin:  And then they also voted at sort of was called the ”Son of 9” —after 
9. They did a ”Son of 9.” 
Powell:  Yeah. And that was, yeah, it was shocking, too, to straight 
colleagues at the university that  that would happen.  
Dugaw:  That helped galvanize. And anyway, that was kind of the most 
extra— I don't know, the biggest sort of dimensional one of these 
annual symposia that we put together. But the really good part 
about it was to try to get to be a community thing and to include 
Sally Sheklow and  Enid and to include the community. And 
because there's a problem that the university is just not hooked into 
the town.  
Raiskin:  Who were the people you brought?  
Powell:  The way— I found this— we had lots of materials from— and there 
was a student who was working with Chicora  Martin, and I don't 
know if it was around 2005 somebody did a project in which they 
did something on the history of the interSexions  program, which 
we called it “inter” lowercase ”Sex” “ions.” And we just absolutely 
pasted the place with flyers and some of the initial publicity 
reflected the discourse of that time around sexuality because we 
put post— we put these flyers everywhere that said things like, 
“When did you first begin to suspect that you might be 
heterosexual?” It was held in April, 1993, and we brought Carol 
Queen, who's a sex educator and a writer and activist.   
 And her topic was “The Melting Pot is Boiling: America's Struggle 
to Accommodate Sexual Diversity.” And she was introduced by 
Frank Avalaise, who was editor of the Lavender Network  newspaper 
in Eugene. And the discussant was Dean Hamer. And then the next 
speaker was Dean Hamer, who's a molecular biologist, geneticist 
from the National Institutes of Health. And his topic was 
“Biological Approaches to Human Sexuality.” And he was doing— 
so Carol Queen was talking about sex toys and lesbian— educating 
a public to lesbian sexualities. And Dean Hamer was talking about 
the studies  he was then doing about that were revealing a pattern 
of what do you call it? But anyway, that there were often  gay 
uncles and gay nephews. And— 
Dugaw:  So there’s  a genetics to it— 
Powell:  And it was highly controversial. There were people who hated 
hearing that there might be a genetic basis and people who were 
fascinated by it. And so his topic was “Biological Approaches to 
Human Sexuality.” And he was introduced by Alan Siporin, who 
was then a commentator on KLCC radio, and the discussant was 
Carmen Vasquez. And then the next speaker on Saturday was 
Carmen Vasquez, who was at that time the coordinator of lesbian  
and gay health services at the San Francisco Department of Public 
Health. And she is active or as far as I know, has been active and in 
public health topics on lesbian, gay, and queer issues. And her 
topic was “Men on Top: A Look at Enforced Heterosexism.” And 
the introduction was given by Anne “Izzie” Harbaugh  of Mother  
Kali's bookstore—lesbian-feminist bookstore in Eugene, Oregon. 
And the discussant for that one was Elias  Farajajé-Jones  and then 
he was the next speaker, Elias  Farajajé-Jones, Professor of Religious 
History of the Divinity School at Howard University. His topic was 
“The Religious Right and Its Religious Wrongs.” And he— you can 
still look him up under that name. He changed his name to Ibrahim  
[Abdurrahman]— 
Dugaw:  Farajajé. 
Powell:  Farajajé. And he was introduced by Tier Mathison Bowie, who was 
the Presbyterian pastor at the Presbyterian Campus Ministry. And 
the discussant was Carol Queen. And then we had a community 
panel and we had Alicia Hayes from the Eugene Human Rights 
Commission, Frank  Avilés from the Lavender Network  newspaper 
Tier Mathison Bowie and Alan Siporin. And the topic was “Beyond 
Measure 9.” Everything was free and open to the university and 
local communities. And we had a lot of community involvement in 
the planning. We were basically— at the very end of the campaign 
before we started planning this, before Measure 9 was settled and 
we went— so we presented the idea that we were going to be doing 
something at a lot of the organizing meetings around the fight 
against Measure 9 and then in a lot of the wrap-up meetings and 
we went to just a lot of different meetings of different organizations 
and got and called people in. But especially what are you doing? I 
mean, participating in what those groups are doing, inviting them  
to be a part of this, which is the way you do coalition work, which 
is a lot of work— 
Dugaw:  It was— 
Powell:  —on top of  an academic gig.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. It was really hard to do.  
Powell:  And was— 
Dugaw:  It really hard to do.  
Powell:  And people  were— 
Dugaw:  It's hard to do in this town because this town isn't used to that.  
Powell: People in the community are rightfully kind of skittish about the 
university and— 
Dugaw:  We— I think we even tried to deal with parking by figuring out 
some lot or something. But I mean  we, because it's very hard and 
we were actually thinking of churches, so we had the religious 
angle and biology, the healthcare angle and the social, I mean, we— 
Powell: And sex. What about sex?  
Dugaw:  What about sex? We tried to figure out a way to really look at it and 
it was about the ballot measures and then we continued with those 
interSexions, educational symposia. But that was the one that was 
the most successful and it was so much work that we couldn't 
replicate  that. But—  
Powell:  That's what you do when you're young.  
Dugaw:  When you're young. But one of the things that was really 
interesting about those ballot measures and about this thing about 
being out and just being matter of fact about who I am, how much I 
do understand it or don't. We went to the— we actually went to a 
conference in 1995, so there was still another one was coming down 
the pike of these measures. But the country, there was we went to 
the gay March on Washington, D.C. in 1995.  
Powell:  Which was enormous.  
Dugaw:  It was enormous.  And but it was really interesting because Oregon 
had been through all of this community organizing and all this 
trauma and all this drama and all of this confrontation. And it was 
very interesting that we all— people were really out in the face of 
all that. And so we just all wore our buttons, whether we were 
“Straight, but not Narrow,” “Better Gay than Grumpy.” 
Powell:  We had good buttons.  
Dugaw:  We had really— but buttons are good thing because see, then you 
don't have to have the awkward conversation. But anyway, one of 
the things I had thought to talk about with this closeting issue it—
we got on the airplane and Colorado had passed— 
Raiskin:  Two. Measure 2.   
Dugaw:  —Two, Yeah, had passed those. But one of the things that was clear 
as we talked to people,  even on the airplane and had the buttons 
out. 
Powell:  And we paraded up and down the concourse with our buttons and 
at first while we were in Denver. 
Dugaw:  And even at the March, is that people in Oregon had come out 
because of this ongoing persecution and weird wrestling, and so it 
was in the public discourse in a way that it wasn't in other places. 
And I think it made a huge difference, both in the way the people, 
the queer people felt, but just that these issues and trying to figure 
this out together and having it be in the public discourse and 
having a kind diverse approach to it. But lots of it being present 
was a really amazing experience. And I think it was partly the all of 
this kind of homophobic stuff and but then pushing back at it, both 
from an  educational point of view, but also just personally and 
being out, just not being puritanically Americanly squeamish about 
diverse sexualities and how it's— this is who I am and I'm not 
going to ask you to think differently, but I'm not going to cower on 
the shame that I have inherited from this world.  
Powell:  It helps to be Catholic because, because of that attitude that we 
don't need to know what you're thinking, but you what you do. 
We're saved by our acts, not our faith. And that you do the right 
thing  and people can— it's not the Protestant angst  about, "Am I 
thinking the right thoughts or are they— what thoughts are they 
thinking? I don't know if I can be in the room with them,  
depending on what their thoughts are." I don't know if you follow 
this, but that is an observable, another cusp I  was brought up on 
was Catholic-Protestant. So I had a chance to observe this close and 
personally. And Dianne, of course, was raised hyper Catholic. 
This— people being out— just no one can pretend they don't know 
someone. It's enormously helpful.  
Dugaw:  That's really important.  
Raiskin:  The other side of Oregon politics, which is interesting, is our roller 
coaster in terms of domestic partnership, marriage— 
Powell:  Right. Now you're married, now  you're not! 
Raiskin:  Now you're married, now you're not. And we were very late to 
actually install marriage in the state. Could you tell us some history 
about your— 
Powell:  We've gotten married— we’ve gotten married  many times. We ran 
off to Vermont and had a civil union because I always resisted 
having a commitment ceremony partly because Dianne's a 
folklorist and I'm in whatever relationship I'm in to spirituality and 
custom and ceremony and we would have to be making it up out of 
whole cloth. And that just didn't feel like quite the thing. And 
Vermont, the civil union in Vermont was the first thing where you 
could— you weren't making it up. There was an external form into 
which you could step. Now— 
Raiskin: What year was that?   
Dugaw:  Two thousand. 
Powell:  Two thousand. Now, before— now  leading up to that, however, is 
the whole thing about what business is it of the state? Any state, the 
state, the government? What do you mean marriage? Continually 
over all the years, we're married, unmarried, remarried to each 
other without ever breaking up. It's like, "Contextualize this again 
for me, honey, what are we—" Because marriage was not— 
Dugaw:  —Radically— 
Powell:  —it was never an aspiration. It was what I was avoiding. It meant 
all those things, chattel, and dishes. And I didn't want to get the 
cutlery and the set of dinnerware and then have to wash them all 
and yeah, 1950s. So on the other hand, you live a little while and 
you start realizing that— 
Dugaw:  It's not fair.  
Powell:  It's not a fair and this isn't my first rodeo and what's going to— 
what  road or what road are we on and how are we providing for 
each other  and ourselves and we don't have children. And anyway, 
it's not fair. There seemed to be a lot of advantages to this marriage 
thing. And it, for better or worse for, everything, there's always an 
upside and the downside. It became what we were rallying around. 
And I think it became a  kind of— I guess we all have our ideas 
about why that was important, but it's hard being a sexualized 
category in a sex phobic—  
Dugaw:  Culture. 
Powell:  Country, culture, setting. So, there was some propriety about it or 
something. You want to be a rebel and you want to change 
everything and you kind of want to fit in at the same time. So 
anyway— 
Dugaw:  Anyway, we— 
Powell:  So, we did Vermont, it was very lovely. We should've eloped but 
we brought my family. I was surprised. My family didn't respond 
very well, but that's, I think they have all the right, they're blue-
state-pinko-leaning-all-the-right-attitudes, but they don't know 
how to welcome outsiders into the family the way Dianne's 
predominantly red state-all-the-wrong attitude-family knows how 
to welcome people. Anyway.  
Dugaw:  I think they're phobic too.  
Powell:  There was a little phobia they hadn't examined. So anyway, but it 
was lovely for us and we had our civil union, then we gave a 
year— we sent out a basically  “save the date” a year in advance so 
people had a chance to get their minds around it that we were 
going to have a ceremony of our own. And we had our own 
ceremony in 2001 at Mount  Pisgah in the— what was then the 
Quonset  hut. And now is the lovely pavilion.  
Dugaw:  And my mom made rolls for the whole group.   
Powell:: Dianne's mother and father went and talked to a kind priest who 
helped— 
Dugaw:  Several kind priests. Several Benedictines.  
Powell:  Who helped them get their minds around it. In the Benedictine  
monastery that they often went to services at which— you only had 
to go to one mass at the monastery  to see  that the place was full of 
really queenie guys and it was so obvious. And really nice and 
really academic, educated intellectuals, what I'm trying to say: men, 
priests, who some of them obviously did some counseling with 
Dianne's parents and they came and Dianne's dad danced with her 
at her wedding and to us that was our wedding. That was with our 
tribe.  
Long: And what year was that again?  
Powell:  That was 2001. 
Long: Two thousand-one. So you first you went to Vermont for, what was 
that? Domestic partnership ? 
Dugaw:  Yeah.  
Powell:  It was a civil union. We were civilly united if we live in Vermont.  
Dugaw:  If we lived in Vermont.  Yeah.  
Powell:  Which we didn't, but it was— 
Long: Oh, right. There was civil union that could not be called marriage.   
Powell:  Right.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. And it was in Vermont.  
Powell:: In Vermont only, but  it was the first place.  
Long: Vermont only.  
Dugaw:  So then, Kate Brown and Portland and Corvallis. Was that what, 
2004? 
Powell:  Multnomah.  
Dugaw:  Multnomah County. And Linn County for that brief two weeks or 
whatever it was in March. Pouring down rain, end of finals week.  
Powell:  Stood  in the rain, like refugees.  
Dugaw:  Yeah.  
Powell:  Somebody ran and got a bouquet at a Safeway or something and 
then sort of distributed it to other people and it just— 
Dugaw:  So we did that.  
Powell:  So we were married and then we got it— then we got the check 
back when people— 
Raiskin:  Because they were annulled  by the state.  
Dugaw:  They were annulled  by the Supreme Court.   
Powell:  They were annulled  by the state and they sent back the money for 
your license. And everybody else, we turned around and sent that 
check straight back to Basic Rights Oregon which was fighting for 
our rights.  
Dugaw:  Then, the citizens of the State of Washington passed a ballot 
measure and voted on it across the whole state. And it passed 
pretty significantly. And it was in 2013.  
Raiskin:  Making marriage legal  in Washington.  
Dugaw:  Making marriage legal in Washington. It's the only place that had a 
popular vote that wasn't done through the courts. And so, we just 
went to Olympia.  
Powell:  Yeah. And it's Dianne's natal state and where a lot of the family is.  
Dugaw:  Where I'm from and they did the right thing and we didn't want to 
do Oregon because it was domestic partners, it was not the real 
thing. So we  just said— 
Powell:: It felt so Jim Crow.  
Dugaw:  It was Jim Crow and it was kind of right-wing Oregon. And so 
freewheeling Washington passed it across the whole state. And so 
we went to Olympia and went before the judge. So now every time 
we passed the courthouse, we sing, "Goin’  to the cha— the 
courthouse and we’re—" And anyway— 
Raiskin:  So, 2015 made—  
Dugaw:  That was ‘13. 
Raiskin:  But 2015 made that marriage in Washington legal in Oregon.  
Dugaw:  Legal here. That's right through the Supreme Court of the U.S. So 
we married in Washington in 2013 the same way we'd done all the 
other ones. Well, the one in Oregon was valid until they annulled it. 
The one in 2004. But yeah, so then we— then it was the Supreme 
Court decision that noticed that it was the only fair  thing to do. It 
was unjust to do anything else. So, we've married quite a lot.  
Raiskin:  Can I ask a question about your—so you have this very active life 
on campus and you really want to bring community into campus 
and have that relationship. What was your relationship like with 
lesbians in the Eugene community who were not associated with 
the university? Were you able to socialize?  
Powell:  They tolerate academics there. Yeah.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. We— 
Powell:  I do think they think we're a quirky bunch, but yeah— 
Dugaw:  Yeah. We have friends, but we're not as our— I think our most 
active queer community is in the recovery community. And that's 
partly because in some ways, I had to get sober and clean because I 
was an addict and an alcoholic as well. And a lot of it is the shame 
and guilt and all the trauma and drama around growing up in a 
culture that doesn't give you very  much to work with on this topic.  
And also the culture of the queerness, especially in the '60s and '70s 
was in the bars.  
Powell:  And '80s.  
Dugaw:  And then I was in L.A. in the '80s, and so— Anyway, so I think that 
I had to figure out how to be okay with myself and I had to get 
clean and sober to do that. And that also made it much better for 
me to figure out exactly what the best way of doing it with other 
people was, too. I think that's when I got clear about who I was and 
where I came from. But I think I  was the most linked to the, maybe 
when I was in L.A., I was the most linked to the— 
Powell:  The women's music.  
Dugaw:  The women's music thing where everyone was drinking, shooting 
up, and swapping girlfriends, or whatever. But that was back then 
and anyway, and here, Sally Sheklow, Enid  and Marlene and yeah, 
a lot of the people.  
Powell:  Yeah. That you're interviewing.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. That you're interviewing. Yeah. But mainly around issues, I 
think.  
Powell:  Yeah, those would be, they're all people we met either through 
campus or through or through issues as Dianne  is saying and then, 
I don't know, we just know a lot of people in Eugene. One thing we 
were talking about is, when I worked at women's community 
health center, the feminist self-help health center in  Cambridge,  
Massachusetts, that was around the purpose of work, getting 
things done about women. But neither Dianne  nor I has been really 
big on— except for the purpose of respite or getting work done, 
seeking out women-only space. It just, I always respect it. I get it. 
And we were thinking, Well, we did get to go to those girls' high 
schools. We had that and on the other hand, neither of us really 
imprinted on summer camp either. It just seems like, I know just to 
me it's sort of culturally and anthropologically or gynepologically 
or whatever we say. It seems like that would be the model in many 
ways.  
But I I'm not sure, but with all respect, but I'm sure that women 
who lived on women's land and I really, I having been in a lot of 
meetings where we tried to do things by consensus, I have all the 
respect in the world, plus you're dealing with the pump freezing or 
something. But I just want to say one thing, parenthetically,  about 
going to the girls  school. The girls school turned coed while I was 
there before the end of my time. So I graduated in 1972 in Concord 
Academy. It was great for me because it was really, really  strong 
academically and really artsy. And they started accepting— there 
was a small group of boys when I was a senior and I had been all 
for co-education because this is unnatural and it just seems 
repressive. And it seemed part of the kind of anti-sexiness thing. 
The boys came and the girls started acting different.  
 And I was shocked. And I remember a particular girl, young 
woman who was really good at tech and she had long curly red  
hair and she just used to get, go right up the ladders and she would 
be changing the lights for theater and dance concerts and stuff. And 
all of a sudden she didn't know how to do it anymore and she was 
giggling and I was so sh—. I was appalled. I just, in that one 
moment I thought this was a terrible mistake. So it was a wonderful 
thing to have girls be it, and really good at things.  
Dugaw:  It was similar in the convent. I was in charge of all the cars.  
Long: In terms of what?  
Dugaw:  All the cars, there's a fleet.  
Powell:  Yeah, women didn't.  
Dugaw:  Now, there's the, some of why I left was that I did get irritated 
about the fleet of Buicks and stuff.  
Powell:  Given the vow of poverty.  
Dugaw:  Given the vow of poverty, but, I was in charge of all the cars. I 
checked the oil, I put the gas in— just did the cars. And I also kind 
of grew up in that way, that somehow, I don't know, my mother 
just was very capable and she just, if you needed to have something 
done, you just  did it. And I think that to have these strong women 
be in charge of the choir and running the hospital. And it's a world 
that no longer exists, the world of that kind of Catholic education. 
But, the biggest hospital in Los Angeles was run by Sister Noella. 
Long: And the Sisters of Providence in the Northwest.   
Dugaw:  Yeah, and all of that has gotten corporatized and secularized.  
Powell:  Something is lost when something else is gained.  
Raiskin:  And your political work sounds like it's often been with gay men. 
Dugaw:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  And not women only.  
Dugaw:  Yeah.  
Powell:  Yeah. And with straight allies. And a lot of my political work has 
been around issues. Going back to the '80s, women's health, lesbian, 
gay stuff, and then, U.S. role in Latin America and internationalist 
stuff. And so it was always, it was always absolutely important that 
lesbians and gay men be welcome and known and included and 
that we formed affinity groups and, but I didn't choose to be in the 
women's only or  the lesbian or the, what would then be lesbian-gay 
affinity group. I just, I don't know, it just seemed— Dianne  had the 
phrase for it from a long time ago that it can feel like a larger closet 
being, and yet for respite or for practical purposes to get stuff done. 
Because you can't always bring everyone along quick enough on 
the issues that you need to focus on or because you get exhausted 
dealing with attitudes.  
Dugaw:  Well, also I think theoretically because early on I had this project 
that was basically  a sort of trans project before that was how things 
were thought. It's also theoretically or conceptually, all of these 
categories are going to change. It's—  
Powell:  We've seen them all change—it’s not like we arrived where we now 
we know what they are.  
Dugaw:  We've seen them all change, they're going to change again. And so I 
also have a theoretical as well as political perspective on trying to 
get everyone able to talk about whatever it is that they need or are 
having to fight or need help with or to be part of who we are and 
where we are.  
Raiskin:  Well, this leads right to my next question, which is about looking to 
the future. Thinking about aging, about health care, things that 
you've been thinking about your whole lives, how do you imagine 
aging together? Aging as lesbians? Aging  in community? 
Powell:  We're going to die peacefully in our sleep together at the same 
moment in time.  Piece of cake. Next question. Like, do we have a 
plan?  
Dugaw:  Well, we're working on it.  
Raiskin:  Do you have concerns? About medical care or?  
Powell:  We have concerns. My mother is in a memory care unit. She's 
ninety-four. She had her— the slate was wiped pretty clean. It 
happened gradually, it's heartbreaking to me. It's heartbreaking. A 
very long grief. She's in a very wonderful place in Brookline, 
Massachusetts with a lot of art and music. We're very lucky that on 
her secretary job, she saved enough. She was amazing. But anyway, 
it's of enormous concern. This country is— I can think of no other  
phrase than “fucked up in the area of health care” and in general 
the society caring for society. And I hope people in the future are 
listening to these, watching these videos, listening and saying 
thank God we solved that. Now, we have single-payer, socialized 
medicine like we always should have. And we also have a judiciary 
that's well balanced and we have representative government in this 
country at last. I hope that that's what they're saying.  
 It's kind of awful. So we picture aging in place, we picture ways to 
get our house, which has two stories— the main part to one story 
so that we can be on— and we've given a bit of thought, quite a bit 
of thought, but like a lot of people, we cross our fingers, we go to 
the gym, we take our fish oil, we do crossword puzzles, we hope 
for the best. We, aren't, I know people who are— I know women. I 
know a heterosexual woman who's Native American, really good 
friend who's planning to be in an intentional community near the 
coast and they're going to grow some of their own vegetables. She 
thinks we're going to have to go to ground. And she's planning, 
including for  aging and community with Indian, with native 
people and not native people, but planning for the long term. We're 
staying in our house for now.  
Long: You didn't have any thoughts about going to a retirement 
community?  
Powell:  Well, that's kind of the same feeling as, we don't have kids, but it 
just seems so stratified. And we haven't—  
Dugaw:  Well, we haven't got to think about that. We've— 
Powell:  I've thought about it with my mother some— 
Dugaw:  Yeah, it was her mother and— 
Powell:  We do wonder about my family history of dementia and— 
Dugaw:  Yeah.  
Powell:  But, we don't have a plan. That's why, for— 
Dugaw:  We don't have a plan of that sort. And though we can walk to the 
doctor, we can walk to the grocery store, we can walk to the 
dentist.  
Powell:: As long as we can walk.  
Dugaw:  As long as we can walk or hire a cab or I don't know.  
Powell:: Yeah. We like the place where we are. We haven't thought about a 
retirement place. We haven't bought into anything. We've 
thought— part of the non-plan is that we will find the ideal person 
to live in the downstairs of our house, which is the other part to 
help out. The perfect scenario would be the perfect person who 
would be wonderfully compatible. They will be able to help around 
the place and do a little personal assistance as needed. Of course 
we have a good friend whose mother is in her nineties  and is now 
starting to have the problems and in California where there is a 
cooperative, a collective or cooperative for in-home health care for 
people. That makes so much sense. That would be a great thing to  
organize and be a part of along with the different movements for 
basic minimum wage, basic minimum wage for healthcare workers 
and for at-home healthcare assistance and unionization and for 
those workers, because I've walked through a lot of that with the 
care from my mother back in Massachusetts when she was still at 
home and then she needed more help and then as she was 
declining in her cognitive impairment and needing a lot of help and 
we were organizing it at the house. And it's a really big topic.  
Raiskin:  I see the political  projects for you.  
Powell:: Yeah.  
Dugaw:  That's a big project for— 
Powell:: Yeah, that kind of stuff is, I mean, I want to write poetry, but that 
kind of stuff is granular kind of organizing. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Is there anything you'd really want to make sure that is in this 
interview that we haven't asked? A little piece or snippet or a 
memory or something that you just want to make sure is in there?  
Dugaw:  Well, one thing, as difficult as it was growing up and feeling 
different and all the different anxieties, shame, something's wrong 
with me, I better drink some more, whatever. There was some part 
of me that was really, even in the worst of it, there was some part of 
me that was really glad to have the clear experience that there was 
something I knew that was true despite what they were telling me. 
And it does occur to me that just as a queer kid, I felt glad that I  
knew. I thought, If I weren't queer I could swallow some of this 
stuff,  and not really know that it was just horse manure or 
whatever.  
Powell:  And she knows what horse manure is.  
Dugaw:  But even when it was really, really  hard and it was so confusing 
and it was just so different from what you were told. Once, I had to 
kind of get around the corner of that. But I've felt like it was good. 
There was a really deep resilience there. And I think I see it in the 
young people, whatever you want to call them. I see it in the young 
people that I work with and it's like there's a very deep resilience 
that's there.  
Long: How about you, Amanda?  
Powell:  I want to say don't lose the sense of and the knowledge of history.  
Herstory.  
Powell:  And the long and deep past. It wasn't much to have Mary Barnard's 
translations of Sappho, but I'm really glad I had them. And there 
are only fragments of Sappho and knowing that and knowing why, 
how that came to be is really important and useful and those 
fragments are really useful. And one of the projects  that that we've 
worked on together is this research on the seventeenth-century 
fashion in women's love poetry to women, which was across 
Europe and many of its colonies. And this was a form, a cultural 
form that had cache that was in some ways privileged in that 
period. And that was written out, invisibilized afterwards.   
 And that we started finding, because of the Spanish poetry that I 
know and some Portuguese poetry I came across and Aphra Ben 
and Katherine Philips in English. And then we started looking  
further and we found examples in Italian and Flemish and French 
and I'm sure there's German, but we haven't found it. Some of it we 
were finding because I have some knowledge of romance 
languages and some of it we were finding through translations and 
we've written and published a couple of essays together and we 
want to do some more on what that was and what, what cultural 
work those poems were doing and then why was it a prestige form 
then and what happened to it? Why did it fall away and fall out of 
view? And who were those women? And what does it represent? I 
think that there's always a horizon of change and changing 
nomenclature and terminology.  
And yet there's something that we recognize with, however you 
group them, there are clusters of sexualities that seem to be tied to 
behaviors and more. And more. And are understood in very 
different ways, in different cultural settings and cultural— I mean,  
history poses cultural change. So that will continue to be changing. 
And in our work on this stuff, we once talked with a really 
interesting philosopher or someone who works in the field of 
philosophy, Jill Kraye in London. And because she had written 
something about the heterosexualizing of Plato and Platonism in 
the so-called Renaissance in the Italian Renaissance by Pietro 
Bembo and people that, who took the as the ideas of Platonism 
became the ideas of what, for instance, Petrarchism and it all got  
heterosexualized. And what had been the adoration of the ephebe, 
the beautiful young man who represented the platonic unity of the 
beautiful and the good as that became the beautiful young girl.  
 The Beatrice  or the really young Laura Petrarch fell in love with 
when she was thirteen. So, we were talking with Jill Kraye about 
her thinking about that and the heterosexualizing of that Platonism 
and related phenomena in the history of philosophy and literature. 
And she just had this great phrase, she said, "Well, you're always 
going to have your lumpers and your splitters." People would want 
to separate and parcel out, divide  and categorize and then people  
say, "Yeah. You can be part of this, too. Yeah. Come out. Yeah. This 
looks, it's different, but it looks it has a lot in common with this," 
and I want to be with the lumpers. Yeah. I just do want to be with 
the lumpers because what do I know? And there's always, the more 
often— you know how it is. We all know this personally. The more 
homophobic someone seems, and then the more you find out and 
you find out about early trauma or their story or what you know 
and you might have more in common. And it's easy for that person 
at that time to vocalize. So, it always seems like more will be 
revealed.  
Dugaw:  Yeah.  
Powell:  I just— 
Dugaw:  Or the more we can all do to make it okay to be who people are and 
not take it out on each  other. Not take it out on each other.   
Powell:  And survive the rising of the  oceans.  
Raiskin:  The more  shall be revealed. 
Dugaw:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Yeah. Thank you.  
Long:  Thank you very much.  
Powell:  Thank you. It's wonderful to be a part of it. Thank you.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. Thanks.  
Powell:  Thank you for doing this work.  
Dugaw:  Yeah. 
 
   [END OF INTERVIEW]  