  
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. This 
is an oral history interview with Donna Adams, Judy Boles and 
Carol Bennett on September 14, 2018, taking place in the University 
of Oregon Libraries’  recording studio in the Center for Media and 
Educational Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, 
Curator of Manuscripts in the UO Libraries’  Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies.  Please let 
us know if you agree to be recorded for this project, and that you 
give your permission for the university to preserve and make 
available your recorded and transcribed interview. Donna?  
Adams:  Yes.  
Long:  Judy?  
Boles:  Yes. 
Long:  Carol?  
Bennett:  Yes. 
Long:  Thank you very much. Let's just start with the basic question. Can 
you please tell us when and where you were born, and something 
about your early years. So let's start on my left, Donna.  
Adams:  I was born in Lake Charles, Louisiana, and was raised in New 
Orleans. I've been really fortunate in  my life to have a family that 
even though it was hard when I was of an  age when I came out to 
them to be accepting. It kind of went against most of my  family's 
belief systems and their political beliefs, and also religious beliefs, 
but they've been very supportive. I was able to raise a family and 
they support my kids and grandkids, so I'm really fortunate.  
Raiskin:  Okay. What year were you born?  
Adams:  I was born in 1956.  
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Long:  And Judy?  
Boles:  I was born in 1944 in San Diego. I first realized that I was a lesbian 
when on the playground, maybe fourth, no like second  or third  
grade. Somebody explained to me what a queer was, and I went,  
"Oh, that's me, and it's really, really bad. This has to be a secret 
forever." And I probably, my parents suspected and asked me 
about it when I was in high school, and then I think they figured 
out actually, abide by the old rule, don't ask things that you don't 
want to know the answer to. So, it was years later before I really 
officially came out.  
Long:  Okay,  Carole? 
Bennett:  I was born in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, August 4, 
1942. My parents brought me over the border into Washington, so I 
lived there in Tacoma, Washington until I was eleven, and then we 
moved to San Diego.  
 When I was six and a half years old, my next door neighbor Skippy 
Brown, in Tacoma, six and a half, he thought I was really naïve. In 
six-and-a-half-year-old vocabulary he said, "You're really stupid. 
You don't know any bad words?" I said, "No." He said, "Well, here 
they are. Bitch, bastard, F-U-C-K, and queer." A queer, he defined, 
"A boy who likes boys and a girl who likes girls." I was six and a 
half, and I was completely stunned because I knew that's what I 
was. I'd had crushes from day one in the first grade.  
 It put a pallor over me, and in that moment you really don't have a 
sense of the future when you're six, but I somehow comprehended 
a way that I was going to have to live my life. Which was, nobody 
can ever know, and I'm different, and I'm a bad word.  
 So, that stuck out in my mind for, well, how long?   
Boles:  Ever.  
Bennett:  Yeah. And in 1977 I told my mother, I said, "Mom, I'm gay." It took 
me hours. She said, "Oh, well I'm not. You didn't get it from me." 
And then my sister's friend, well I guess former friend, outed me. 
They said, "You know, your sister's a lesbian." "Yeah? We know. 
Sure. We know. We've known that." And so it was, I guess not 
surmised, but through my various friendships  my sisters picked 
that up. That was my early experience of self-definition, self-
identity.  
Raiskin:  What was high school like for each of you?  
Adams:  Well, one of the things that just their discussion brought up for me 
was that one of times that was most cementing for me that felt 
really okay about being gay was when I was in high school the 
Time  magazine put a— it was during the Vietnam War, and there 
was a man on the cover of the magazine, and this one line just 
resonated with me. It was, "They gave me a Purple Heart for killing 
my fellow human beings, and they gave me a dishonorable 
discharge for loving one of them."  
 From that point on I never questioned my sexuality again. And I 
was like you. I had crushes on girls and was asking them to go 
steady in fourth  grade. I just knew that. High school was okay with 
me. I didn't come out in high school, but I was out internally but 
not externally. I came out shortly after that with my sisters, and  
they already knew. It took me a while, it took me until I was in my 
early twenties  to tell my parents.  
Raiskin:  Did you date boys in high school?  
Adams:  I dated boys. I dated boys, but it never felt right, and I started 
dating girls pretty early after that, seventeen, eighteen. 
Boles:  I enjoyed high school. We went to a small school. Carole  and I 
actually have known each other since grade school.  
Adams: Oh, that's awesome. I didn't know that.  
Boles:  So, if I'm fibbing, you can check it out. I liked high school. I was a 
good student, so typically when you're good at something then it 
works for you. We went to a small school, so there were like ninety-
something, ninety-nine  kids in my class, and there were sort of like 
the sociable people and the brains and the whatever.  
 But people really liked each other, not like some other Oceanside— 
I went to Carlsbad High School, which is on the coast in California. 
And right next door to Oceanside, which is a much bigger town, 
which is also right next to Camp Pendleton, which is a huge, huge 
Marine Corps base, so a lot of kids had either their dad was a lifer 
or somebody worked on the base.  
 But Oceanside was much  more cliquey, and people within classes 
didn't like each other. And year in, year out in our measly little 
school, everybody like everybody.   
 I did date in high school, David Berger. Yeah, he was a good guy 
and we enjoyed each other's company. People asked, one day we 
left school, we decided we were going to get dressed up for some— 
I can't remember why. But then we came back to school all dressed 
up and a couple of the teachers said, "Did you guys get married?" 
"No, no, no." Yeah, so I liked high school. I enjoyed it.  
Bennett:  It was announced by our vice principal at Carlsbad High School 
that this is a strictly hand holding school, so not even arm-in-arm. I 
caught on really quick having the understanding that I was queer, 
which is very, very bad, at six-and-a-half-years old.  
 I understood that I needed to always have a boyfriend. Not that I 
pursued it, but I could kind of conjure up kind of a crush on a boy 
in the same way with a girl. I had to hide the girl crushes, and they 
became my best friends, lots of them. I always had a boyfriend, or 
somebody that I liked, and that was my cover. And then, eighth  
grade I had a couple of boyfriends, and then I had boyfriends in 
high school. When I say boyfriends, I mean we'd go to Herb's 
Drive-In and have a Coke and a burger. We'd go to a movie. We'd 
go to the beach. Drive around town. They call it dragging the gut 
here, but it was cruising the strand, which was cruising the main 
little one-lane road on the beach.  
 The one significant thing is I really was so well closeted, but 
terrified that somebody would find out, and I did everything that I 
could to act feminine, which was really hard. I have to say this one 
thing. In seventh  grade, a good friend, Linda Lopez, said, "Carole ,  
why are you always acting like a guy?" Another wave of, "Oh shit, 
I'm busted." Oops, bleep. So yeah, I always had a boyfriend.  
 And then, thanks to Judy Boles, when I was twenty-six, because my 
mother would call on the phone and Judy would be there and she'd 
hear me. "Oh mom, I'm dating. Yeah well, yeah I'm dating 
somebody." And Judy, when I got off the phone, she said, "You 
know, Carole," in a very kind way, "You don't have to pretend you 
have a boyfriend or that you're interested in men." She might as 
well have told me something that was unbeknownst to me in my 
thinking and my awareness. And I thought, "Whoa, that would be a 
big step. What a relief." "Do you think I can, really?" After that, I 
never had a fake boyfriend.  
Long:  Now, were you two out to each other, then? Did you connect?  
Bennett:  Well, in 1969, I had come back from traveling, and Judy had been 
going to school and traveling, and we met up in California, back in 
Oceanside, Carlsbad, San Diego. I knew that I needed to talk to 
Judy Boles. I'd already had one three-year relationship with 
somebody on the East Coast, and when I came back to San Diego, 
again, no lesbian thinking vocabulary awareness connection to 
anybody else who might be that way.  
 Judy— so we got together. I sent her a postcard, and I had lived in 
Germany for a while, I think I sent her a postcard from Germany. I 
said, "If you get this and you want to get together— " Well, 
immediately she called me as soon she got it. I went to San Diego to  
visit her. You were engaged to David at the time. Let's see, I was 
twenty-five. Judy and I are about a year and a half apart. I was 
twenty-five.  
 Well, we sort of had a conversation, but it was mostly 
demonstrative, and she said, "When did you get into this lesbian 
stuff?" I said, "About three years ago." Well, we had already had a 
little bit of alcohol and pot, so. When she said, "When did you get 
into this lesbian stuff?" I told her, and she said, "Oh, I've got to 
think about this." And it was about five minutes later she said, 
"Yeah, okay. Let's do this." And we were together for about four or 
five years, and had a lot of travels together. I became very close 
with her mom and dad. Her mom is still alive, ninety-six years old, 
and I call her my second mom.  
 So yeah, Judy and I, this is the continuity, and I think continuity is 
very important to me in my life. It's like a family. I mean, we can 
talk about people we knew fifty, sixty  years ago.  
Raiskin:  What happened to David? You were engaged to him at the time?  
Boles:  Well, sort of. It wasn't really. I mean, I knew I wasn't doing that, 
but I was still at the, you know, "Well, maybe I could do this." Do 
you really want to be a lesbian? Boy, that's a tough row to hoe. If I 
don't have to, maybe I can not have to do that.  
Raiskin:  Had you been with women before Carole?  
Boles:  Yes, when I went away to college. Yeah. But anyway, so it was like, 
"Okay, no more of that," because it was messy. Because when 
you're eighteen  or whatever, it's like a kid in a candy shop. So I 
wasn't going to do that, but when Carole— Carole  said it was like 
five minutes after this kissing thing, it was more like five seconds. 
"Okay, good."  
 And then it just went on. I'm kind of proud of the fact that my best 
friends are my exes. I always think that that says something nice 
about you.  
Raiskin:  What happened as you’re seventeen, eighteen  years old? What 
were your plans for your future?  
Adams:  Well, I have an identical twin sister, and she left home the day after 
we graduated from high school to go live with a drummer down in 
San Diego, and my parents were devastated and  I was devastated 
because I would miss her so much. So, I took a little bit of time and 
stayed home with them and worked for a while, but my goals were 
to go to college and start a career.  
 I ended up going to school in Colorado for a year at Western State, 
which is a little teeny town of Gunnison, 6,000 people, and met a 
woman named Pat who was the only other lesbian in town. We 
kind of had a relationship, but it wasn't ever a really strong 
relationship, it was more of a relationship of necessity to get the 
hell out of dodge. We packed up a van, and I quit school there.   
 She was born in Eugene actually, so we knew that there was a 
women's community here, and we got in this van we named 
Meatloaf and threw everything we owned including dogs and 
everything else in it and came here. And rolled into town on fumes, 
and ended up in Eugene. That was kind of how we got here. We 
traded the van in for two bicycles and that was the start of it.  
Raiskin:  What year was that?  
Adams:  That was in '76.  
Raiskin:  What did Eugene look like to you when you came in '76?  
Adams:  Oh, it was wonderful. I mean, I needed to be someplace a little bit 
bigger. There was a huge community thing going on. I was young. I 
was only twenty.  That was four months before my twenty-first 
birthday,  so I couldn't get into Riv Room so I snuck into the Riv 
Room. It felt like a bubble from everything I'd experienced in terms 
of— It felt like home in terms of being a place where I knew I could 
just be who I am.  
Long:  So you knew that there was a lesbian  community in Eugene when 
you came?  
Adams:  I did, yes.  
Long:  How did you find out about Eugene?  
Adams:  My friend Pat was born here, so I knew that.  
Long:  Oh, yeah. That's right. Okay.   
Adams:  And then I also needed to go to a larger school because Western 
State was pretty small, so my goals were to transfer and come get 
my residency here. I went to Lane for a while and then transferred 
to the university.  
Raiskin:  What did you want to study when you came?  
Adams:  Environmental science and chemistry. So I ended  up transferring 
my credit from Western State and did the Environmental 
Technology program at Lane so that I could get a job, and then 
transferred out of that to the university after that.  
Raiskin:  And what year did you— you didn't come together? You came 
together?  
Boles:  No, right after high school I went to Berkeley, and I really didn't 
know what I thought I was going to do. Actually, I applied to 
Caltech and I got a letter back— Caltech is a public university in the 
state of California, and I got a letter back saying, "We don't accept 
girls."  
Bennett:  Oh, my God.  
Boles:  Yup, so I went to Berkeley. But anyway. I went to Berkeley 
nominally. As soon as I got there I was all about coming out, and I 
just never went to class. I spent all my time being with women. 
And so of course, if you don't go to class and you don't do the 
homework and you don't do any of that stuff, guess what happens? 
You're gone.   
 So, then over the course of ten years, I went to school and then I 
worked, and I went to school and I worked,  and I went to school. I 
think like 1973 I finally actually got a college degree in English 
literature, which had nothing to do with anything that I ever 
thought I was going— I majored in sociology and philosophy and 
political science, but I always would take English because I like to 
read, and so it was an easy— finally I get to the point, "Okay, I've 
got to get a degree and get out of here." I add up everything, I have 
more English than anything else, so that's what I graduated in.  
 I have never had any ambitions. I'm not really career- or money-
motivated. I just follow my nose and whatever comes up is where I 
go, so that's the truth about me is that I didn't think— now, I think I 
wish I had been an engineer, because I was okay with the numbers, 
and looking back I think, Oh, it would really fun to build stuff.   
Raiskin:  What year did you start Berkeley?  
Boles:  Nineteen sixty-three. 
Raiskin:  Okay.  
Boles:  Yeah, and it wasn't as hard to get in then as it is now. But I was 
actually a very good student, and I aced the college boards. 
Sometimes you take a test and you're just bing, bing, bing, so that's 
how that sort of flukey happened.  
Raiskin:  Were you there for the free speech movement in 1964?   
Boles:  I was. I absolutely was. I stood out there, and Mario Savio,  that was 
the Cuban Missile Crisis at the same time, and of course people 
were going crazy. All these speakers out right in front. You couldn't 
actually at that time congregate on the campus itself, but right in 
front of, there's kind of an open plaza.  
Raiskin:  Sproul Hall.  
Boles:  Yeah. The people would set up speakers, and yeah it was very 
exciting and scary. But yeah, I was there.  
Long:  What did you think was going to— might happen? I mean, was 
everybody expecting to be bombed by the Cubans?  
Boles:  You know, the Cuban Missile Crisis thing, I think people really 
were not sure what was going to happen. If there was actually 
going to be some kind of confrontation. I don't know at that age if I 
really— I was scared, but maybe not all that scared, just because  
your mortality is the last thing on your mind when you're eighteen. 
I don't have a sense of what other people might have felt like, but I 
think that might have been kind of universal. It was scary, but also 
exciting, and probably in your heart of hearts, "I'm probably not 
going to die."  
Adams:  I was younger then, and I was hiding under desks. We had the 
drills. Like it was going to protect you getting under your desk and 
ducking.  
Boles:  Right. Yeah, yeah.   
Raiskin:  What were you wearing in college? What kind of clothing?  
Boles:  Well then I was kind of doing sort of this— well  actually, we 
should back up. In high school you had to wear a skirt, and Miss 
Rector, who was— well, our PE teacher in grade school was Miss 
Dyke, I kid you not. Okay? And in high school it was Mrs. Rector, 
who was clearly a dyke, reflecting back. But she would make you, 
if your skirt was too short you kneeled down on the floor in the 
gym and if the hem of your skirt didn't touch the floor, home you 
went to change.  
 In college, you were  not supposed to wear pants, but nobody really 
bothered with it much. I can't really remember, for sure. Carole, 
what'd I wear? Anyway, but I think I probably wore pants. 
Certainly if I could, I would. And because I wasn't going to class, so 
what?  
Raiskin:  Did you go to college after high school?  
Bennett:  I went to the local community college for two years in Oceanside, 
California. And then somebody mentioned to me, "You know, you 
don't have to go a full continuous four years to get a degree. People 
travel,  they go to Europe." And I went, "Whew, thank goodness," 
because I wasn't oriented towards a career, but I knew and I'd 
known for a long time that I wanted to go to college. I was the first 
person to graduate in my college in my generation, in my parents’ 
generation.   
 And then when Judy and I re-met in 1969, her parents invited us to 
move  to Weiser, Idaho together. We lived on fifty acres, and 
farmland, very different than southern California. They were really 
prejudice about men with long hair, and it's just hard to believe that 
was, well 1970 to '74. Then I finished my degree after Judy, so we 
both worked, but we helped each other as far as providing for the 
household while the other one went to school.  
 I just want to digress for a minute. The first time I met Judy was on 
the playground at Pine Street School, and it was following our PE 
hour with Miss Dyke. Miss Dyke. But that word, I didn't know 
what that word meant, but she wore seersucker dresses, gloves 
with the fingers cut out, and these giant hats because it was always 
sunny. One of them Tijuana on the front, and sometimes they had a 
bill like that. And Miss Dyke, our PE consisted of square dancing, 
circle dancing, volleyball, I don't know, Jacks or something.  
Boles:  Put your little foot.  
Bennett:  Pardon me?  
Boles:  Put your little foot, put your little foot.  
Bennett:  Oh, perfect. And I hated it, because Skip to my Lou, go to the left, 
and I was always going to the right. Oh. And it was not my thing. 
After class, this girl came running up to me full speed. She gets into 
my face and she said, "Hi, my name's Judy. What's yours?" 
"Carole." "Hi." And then she fled. As fast as she appeared, she fled. 
I looked at her and I went, "Okay, I know she's like me."   
Adams:  Wow.  
Raiskin:  How old were you?  
Bennett:  Pardon me?  
Raiskin:  How old were you?  
Bennett:  I was twelve, and Judy— I was in seventh and she was in fifth. 
Boles:  I would have been ten. 
Bennett:  But she was in my sister's grade. This is a small town and we all 
knew each other. Judy was my sister's friend.  But when she came 
up to me it was another revelation, but a stark— I was terrified that 
she was going to say, "And, I know who you are." I honestly, I was 
frightened, Judy. I've told this story before because it was dramatic 
for me.  
Long:  So Judy, did you  sense something about Carole  that allowed you to 
do that?  
Boles:  I'm sure I did. Yeah, I'm sure I did. Because you remember when 
you're in grade school, the distance between one grade and the 
next. Somebody who's a grade ahead of you, it's like they're a 
completely different social class. They're the nobility, you're the 
peon. So the fact that I went up to Carole, I don't remember this. I 
don't remember a lot of things. I guess Carole  is my memory. But 
I'm sure I did, and yeah. But that's right.   
 Carole  is a fantastic athlete, just superb, even then. I was sort of 
half-assed athlete. Carole  was like really, really good, and could 
have played, I think, professional golf or a lot of different things. 
So, I kind of recognized— I'm sure that's part of how I sort of knew 
that Carole  was in the realm there with me.  
Raiskin:  And so how did you two come to Eugene?  
Boles:  Well, my folks bought a campground in Weiser, Idaho, and they 
invited Carole  and I to come. Of course then we were unfaithful to 
each other naturally, and we met other people. And somebody who 
went to school at the U of O, so we had come over to visit and 
when we finally said, "You know, we shouldn't really be a thing 
here."  
Bennett:  We moved to Portland.  
Boles:  Yeah, we moved to Portland, and then because we heard there's no 
jobs in Eugene, because there's all these people graduating from 
school and they're looking for a job. And neither of us— Well 
actually, we put each other through  our final years of college. I was 
finishing up, and everyday Carole made me a tuna fish sandwich 
to take to work, and then when she finished, then— you finished 
after me, right?  
Bennett:  Uh-huh [affirmative]. 
Boles:  Yeah. So she helped me finish, I helped her finish, and then it's like, 
"Okay, this is silly. We have to be someplace that makes sense." So,  
that's when we moved to Portland, thinking there's no jobs in 
Eugene, and then I can't remember why I moved to Eugene. I can't 
remember what prompted me to do that.  
Bennett:  I think Melinda wanted to.  
Boles:  Oh, Melinda.  Okay.  
Bennett:  Because Melinda and Judy moved to Portland from Weiser, Idaho 
area, and I'd already left with somebody else and moved to 
Chicago for a year, and I was miserable in another urban area. And 
we got a call while in Chicago from Judy and Melinda, who were 
now living in Portland, Oregon, and they said, "Why don't you 
come and live with us? We've got ten acres and a big house. Why 
don't you come?"  
 So, within about six, seven weeks, we were back out here and we 
lived together. And then we were there about six months when, I 
think it was March of 1975 that you and Melinda moved to Eugene, 
and that's when you met Linda Phelps and a lot of people, a lot of 
women.  
Boles:  Yeah. That was— 
Bennett:  Then I stayed in Portland.  
Boles:  And when did you come? You came down to Eugene a couple 
years later, or?   
Bennett:  June the first, 1978. I had come down several times to see Judy, and 
then I had met a few friends through Judy. And one afternoon Judy 
said, "Well, we've got this softball team, Eugene Naturals. It's really 
cool. It's all—", I don't know even know if we used the word 
lesbian. But anyway, "It's all women, and you'll never guess who's 
on the team." And she gave me the name of the person, Judy 
Enkosky. We all went to Carlsbad High School together.  
 So, we find out that Judy is also a lesbian. And I harken back to, she 
was three years younger than I, but we always went to the beach 
and we would lie on the blankets at the beach. And everybody's in 
the water and out of the water, and again, I don't know what our 
language was or how we talked, we would talk for hours every day 
at the beach about philosophy, art, spirituality, without any strong 
background in it, but just the kind of innate this and, oh. And 
again, I just texted Judy, who now lives in Hawaii, and she said, 
"I'll never forget our talks on the beach."  
 And it was, you know what? We planned our life, we planned our 
life on the beach that summer. Anyway, we met up again, and  Judy 
Boles  said, "Well, I'll call Judy and have her come over." So Judy  
Enkosky -Phillips came over, and we were hugging and we were so 
happy to see each other. It had been thirty-five years, or fifteen  or 
twenty, and, "Oh, you're living in Portland?" "Yes." "You should 
move to Eugene," and I said, "Okay." It was the thing that I 
thought, now it's the path that I'm on. This Judy, and meeting all  
these women, and then Judy Enkosky, at that moment it was like 
full circle. You're supposed to be here, Carole. 
Boles:  Yeah.  
Bennett:  And I have said it before, when I did move to Eugene, I was in a 
realm that I had never been in before. Like a kid in a candy shop. 
There was so many women, so many wonderful women, and you 
never, at the time it was important, you really never had to talk to a 
man. Not that I was a separatist, but it was like, "Well, finally I can 
interact and go about my daily business," and everything that you 
do over time, and you can just be with each other.  
Boles:  Yeah. I want to say something about sports, because Carole  was on 
the Naturals, and also on Peralandra Pearl Divers. Of course we 
didn't put the Pearl Divers on the shirts.  
Bennett:  I think we did, didn't we?  
Long:  Later they were, those words were on the shirts.  
Boles:  Was it?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Boles:  Okay. Well, Carole  was really a terrific player, but she would hit 
very, very long. Mostly she played left field because she could 
catch and throw and do everything. But when she would hit, she 
would be so on the ball that most, maybe half the time, it would go  
along the left field line and go foul, but it would be so close to 
being completely over the fence you can't believe it.  
 Okay, I would hit completely to right because I'd be going like, "Oh 
my God, now they threw the ball to me. Okay, where is it, where is 
it, where is it? Oh, okay. Now, now." Ping! But luckily what would 
happen is sometimes it would go over the second base and first 
base person, and really be right in that sweet spot where, and of 
course the weakest on a softball team is usually the person in right 
field, so I was always hitting to the weakest person. So often, I 
would actually get on with having no athletic ability.  
 But anyway, sports. That was a terrific time. I mean, every lesbian 
in town came to those games. You could not find a place to park, 
nothing. I mean, those were the social events of whatever.  
Adams:  Every week.  
Boles:  And I know you played.  
Adams:  I played for a while, yes I did. I spent most of my time in the 
bleachers making out with girls and watching people on the field. 
But no, that was a really great activity to do where it  brought 
people together, and I don't know that that exists anymore. Those 
were really great experiences doing a lot of outdoor things. Hiking 
with other women. It was like a real community feel with all of 
those things, aside from the co-ops and everything else that was 
going on at that time.   
Boles:  Yeah.  
Bennett:  Well I have to thank Skippy Brown for a lot of things, but he taught 
me not to throw like a girl. He taught me everything about how to 
throw the ball. Football. They had a pasture and horses, but we set 
up broad jump, high jump, pole vaulting. We did all those things 
for years and years.  
 In seventh  grade, Judy pointed out that I was an athlete then. It was 
something else I had to hide, because I thought, "If I'm athletic— " 
That's why I would have loved to have been a PE teacher, but I 
thought, "No, I can't do that. I'll be outed." I was a good athlete, but 
I didn't— and I had to do all these things in a skirt, and the skirts 
came down to maybe three inches above your ankle. And flats, not 
tennis shoes, but flats.  
 So my seventh  grade homeroom teacher talked to my mother, and 
my mother said, "You know Carole, Mr. Huntington wants you to 
play on the boys softball team," and I didn't want to, because again, 
that was going— a sign that I'm different. I just never felt that it 
was something I could celebrate. But innately, it was the most 
terrific thing to be physical and run around and scream and yell. 
That's what was so good about our softball, the Eugene Naturals 
and Peralandra.  
 So, I did play only one game, and by the time the game came 
around we were going to play the Carlsbad Army-Navy Academy. 
Well, by that time my boyfriend was Richard, and he was the  
pitcher for Army-Navy Academy, so I had to stand up there and 
bat against him. And this is what I did. I was kind of humiliated 
and so over-exposed to this situation that I just wanted to run 
away. On the one hand, my mother wanted me to do it. "Won't that 
be wonderful?" He struck me out, and I cried. I just wanted to 
crawl away, but that was my experience.  
 And gosh, I really wish I had— you know, maybe if I— I don't 
know, but that's what it was. It was a very exposing moment, and I 
guess I felt exposed, too, when Skippy Brown said when I was six 
and a half years old what a queer was.  
Raiskin:  Those stakes were too high.  
Bennett:  Hmm?  
Raiskin:  Those stakes were too high.  
Bennett:  Yes, that's a good way to put it.  
Raiskin:  So, you were all in Eugene by 1978?  
Bennett:  Yes. 
Boles:  Five.  
Adams:  Seventy-six. 
Boles:  I was here in '75.  
Raiskin:  Okay, and you were playing softball. Where was the softball field?   
Bennett:  Amazon Field.  
Adams:  Amazon Field.  
Boles:  Of course. Where else?  
Adams:  Where else, yeah.  
Bennett:  And we did, we thought, "Well, this is just underscoring who we 
are."  
Adams:  It was perfect, yeah.  
Long:  But where is that?  
Bennett:  At Twenty-fourth  and Pearl.  
Long:  Oh. 
Bennett:  Twenty-fourth— 
Long:  Right by where the high school is.  
Bennett:  Yes. 
Adams:  Yes, right beyond there.  
Boles:  Yeah.  
Bennett:  It's right down from Roosevelt Junior High now, or middle school.  
Long:  Okay.  
Adams:  There was a couple of fields there, yeah.   
Boles:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  And where were you all living?  
Bennett:  Well, the first 1371 Sunny Drive is where I moved into with Judy 
and Linda and one other person, and then many people who 
crashed there.  
Boles:  Well, Susie Grimes lived with us, too.  
Raiskin:  What part of town is that?  
Boles:  River Road area.  
Raiskin:  River Road, okay.  
Boles:  Yeah.  
Adams:  I lived on Polk Street, and it got turned into some kind of— I got 
evicted because they turned it into some business. It was across the 
street from the no-tell motel. When I first moved here, also I had 
the same thing, "You'll never find a job. You'll never find a place to 
live." And, Heatherton Sage found me a house, and so that's where 
I lived during that early time for a couple of years.  
Bennett:  Wow.  
Adams:  Yeah.  
Boles:  Yeah.   
Raiskin:  It's kind of amazing that so many people came knowing there were 
no jobs, no place to live, there's a housing crunch. Imagine how 
many people would have come if that was not the case.  
Adams:  Yeah.  
Bennett:  Yes. 
Boles:  Well, it's like thank goodness for the rain, otherwise everyone in 
the whole country would move to Oregon.  
 Well you know, I guess work stuff is something that we should 
cover, because people contributed— well, there were kind of the 
entrepreneurs, and that included Wild Iris. And probably you 
know that Wild Iris, the partners there were Linda Phelps, Charm 
Bernard, and Maryann Gould. Actually they assumed Gertrude's 
debt, and  that's how they came in. I was actually a part of anytime 
it had something to do with money— 
Adams:  You're the accountant.  
Boles:  People would ask me to come. It had something to do with money, 
how they were going to work this out, so I helped moderate that 
discussion of how— I mean, really there was nothing to discuss 
because financially it was not succeeding so they were lucky to 
have somebody saying, "We'll take over your debt." But— 
Raiskin:  Why were you asked to help with financial situations?   
Boles:  Because I had already— the work that I did actually when I was in 
Idaho, I was a controller for a car dealer, which is actually quite a 
responsible job. I actually started bookkeeping when I was in high 
school for my dad and his partner, they owned an auto  supply and  
after school I'd do the books. Not the quarterlies, but all of— and 
so, over the years whenever I had to get a job, well I'd do a little 
bookkeeping. Well, pretty soon I'd do a little accounting. Well, 
pretty soon I'd actually do a little finance.  
 When I came, I ended up working for the City of Eugene as an 
accountant. And I had this other background, so I kind of knew 
what I was doing. So that's why. Linda and Charm and Maryann 
took over and started Wild Iris kind of at the— Carole  waitressed. 
You should talk about what you did at Wild Iris, and the miser 
meals and— 
Bennett:  From 5:00 to 7:00 on Wednesdays the Wild Iris offered what they 
called miser meals. I don't know what they were, much, much less. 
They were the same menu, a little bit restricted menu, and smaller 
portions. And my friend Mary Jo and I, my girlfriend at the time, 
waited tables. It just felt really good, I always liked getting money 
for other people, fundraising and that sort of thing.  
 But I was talking to my mother on the phone, and I told her what 
we were doing. She said, "Oh, do they have dessert?" I said, "Oh 
yes, they have a nice dessert menu." "Oh, well I'm going to send my 
pumpkin cake roll up there." I said, "Oh mom, that's fantastic." I 
didn't want her to. It was just something more I was going to have  
to deal with. She made the pumpkin cake roll, she wrapped it 
really, really well, and a few days later it came in the mail. I said, 
"Be sure you send it so that it arrives on Tuesday," because it'll be— 
we served the pumpkin cake roll, and it was a hit. She was very 
happy.  
 My mom, thinking back, she did a lot of wonderful things, but 
when I get to Arrow Maintenance I'll tell you another story about 
my mom. But, what else?  
Boles:  Well, how much did you get paid doing the waitressing at Wild 
Iris?  
Bennett:  We didn't. We other jobs, but we just did this for our community 
service, I guess, and we were friends with the owners.  
Boles:  That's right.  
Bennett:  Yeah, we just wanted to help out. Because one of our business 
accounts with Arrow Maintenance was the North Bank Restaurant, 
and they had twilight dinners. We fashioned it after that, the miser 
meals.  
Boles:  Well, I'm not 100  percent  certain on this, but I'm pretty certain. 
Actually, the food person from the R-G came and reviewed Wild 
Iris, and said the food was good, but— And of course, he or she, I 
can't remember, didn't say, "Well, it's just loaded with a bunch of 
queers in there," but that's basically what they said, so don't go 
there because it's nothing but a bunch of lesbians in there. Of  
course that's not what they said, but it was something to the effect 
that the clientele or whatever. That was a whole other thing.  
Long:  That was the Register-Guard, the local newspaper?  
Boles:  Yeah. Yeah.  
Long:  So, where was the Wild  Iris located?  
Boles:  What street was Wild Iris on, Lawrence?  
Bennett:  It was on Lincoln, between Eleventh  and Twelfth. 
Long:  Okay.  
Bennett:  I think it was 1261 Lincoln.  
Boles:  Yeah. I invested, because I bought the espresso machine.  
Bennett:  And it was definitely a local meeting place for lunch.  
Boles:  It was, yeah.  
Bennett:  It was well known for the very good food if you had enough time 
to wait for it.  
Boles:  You know, we should— there’s  others— 
Raiskin:  Where were you working?  
Boles:  I'm sorry?  
Raiskin: Where were you working at this time?   
Boles:  City.  
Raiskin:  The city, okay.  
Boles:  I worked at the City of Eugene. I started as an accountant and then 
I became the budget manager. Then I went to Benton County as 
kind of the assistant finance director, and  then I came back to 
Springfield as, I can't remember exactly where I started. I think the 
like the accounting manager, and then I ended up as the finance 
director at Springfield.  
Raiskin:  Were you out in these jobs?  
Boles:  You know, not really, but I wasn't keeping— I wasn't saying, "Hey, 
guess what?"  but if somebody asked, or— Well, that was part of 
what was going on, because of course in these years were all the 
ballot measures.  
Raiskin:  The anti-gay ballot measures.  
Boles:  Yeah. I worked on I think all of those except 9, because I had left 
town at that time. In fact, when I was in Springfield the city 
attorney who was really a great guy, and he asked me because it 
was at the time of measure 51. No, that was Eugene. Springfield 
was 20-08. And he asked me,  "Are you going to say something?" 
And I said, "Well, I probably should, but I'm not." People knew, but 
it wasn't like "official".  
Raiskin:  Did you ever feel homophobia at work?   
Boles:  Huh. Not anybody that I really worked— Well, there was one 
person who was on the management team who said something 
like, I'm trying to think how he put it but, "I work with," and I don't 
know if he said my name or not, and I over— He was a very, very 
devout fundamentalist Christian, and he said something to the 
effect, "Well, I work with Judy and I overlook." I'm like, "Well, 
thanks a lot."  
 That's a very good organization, the Springfield City organization. 
They're very in-tune with the community and do a lot of good, and 
I never really encountered things at work. I mean, but I'm sort of 
oblivious, so things might've happened I didn't even pick up on.  
Adams:  I was working for the City of Eugene, and I started there in 1980, 
actually. I was the first woman, I worked at the wastewater 
treatment plant in the very beginning as a lab technician in their 
water quality laboratory. There was a lot of different professions at 
that facility. There was mechanics and operations people, a lot of 
people, and I was one of two women in the whole organization. 
There was like seventy-two employees. There was a lot of people.  
 I remember going there and there was all these horrible calendars 
and stuff up. Miss Rigid Wrench calendar, just horrible. Just really 
bad things. I decided when I first started working there I had to do 
something, and I  went and got a Playgirl  magazine with all the 
naked men centerfolds. I covered them up, I covered up privates, 
but I did a calendar of my own and hung it up in lunchroom. It was 
called “Turning the Tables 1980.”  
Raiskin:  That's so ironic, because that wasn't even your orientation.  
Adams:  No, no, it was just the idea.  
Raiskin:  I understand.  
Adams:  And it lasted about two seconds, and it was torn down. My 
philosophy when I went into that organization was more just 
getting to know people and seeing people change their perspective 
about gay people through their relationships.  
Raiskin:  So, were you out there?  
Adams:  I wasn't blatantly out, but I was out. I mean, I raised a family. I 
ended up raising a family while I was working for the city, and I 
have a thirty-two-year-old daughter and a twenty-four-year-old 
son, and my partner and I were together for twenty-six years before 
she passed away. There was a lot of things in the city that behind 
the scenes, things around policies and issues and leave absences 
and custody issues, and all of those things, insurance coverage, that 
was like a learning experience and trying to change those things 
from the inside out. And actually, a lot of those things happened.  
 We were actually, I think, the first couple to have a— we petitioned 
the Circuit Court when our son was born to have joint custody, and 
we were granted that. It was really through the help of a lot of 
people that worked in the city. There was the Assistant Public 
Works Director, he ended up in the City Manager's Office at that 
time, and he was really good about saying, "You should kind of  
keep this quiet," when that happened because the OCA's in full 
force and they're going to try to take your kids away. That kind of 
thing was happening.  
 I never had a lot of discrimination, I didn't feel that from people 
that I worked with, but I really kind of just built relationships with 
people as I moved through different positions in the city and over 
time. I think it broadened people's perspective, and I did really 
good work,  so I think that was helpful. I was able to move up 
through different positions. I was a laboratory supervisor for a long 
time. Then when I ended my career— I worked there for thirty  
years, so when I ended my career there I was the Environmental 
Management  System Coordinator  and we were ISO certified for 
environmental [inaudible 00:52:44].  
 I felt like the city was a good organization to work for. There was a 
lot of challenges. There were times where it was really— and I 
hoped that all of that's worked out now, now that people can be 
married. Even when the domestic partner thing was going on 
where they recognized my partner as a partner and my son as my 
son, when her mom passed away I had to take vacation time to go 
to the funeral. You know, those types of things. I think there was a 
lot of progress through all of that time on a lot of those policies, so I 
felt pretty grateful.  
Raiskin:  Did you challenge those policies yourself, and work on them?  
Adams:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Yes.   
Boles:  Yeah.  
Adams:  And, there’s people inside the city that were really good about 
doing that. There were some that weren't. There were some people 
that were just so stuck on the definitions and couldn't see beyond 
that, so if the person wasn't listed then that was that. Cheryl passed 
away two months before it was federally legal for us to get married, 
so— we were also one of the 3,000 at Multnomah County, so we 
were registered. We got our marriage certificate and our license, 
and we got married. We had a big wedding, and then they sent us 
our license back and said it was revoked.  
Long:  Would you mind telling us how you and your partner got your 
children?  
Adams:  Yeah. First of all, I've got to say a little bit about Cheryl, because 
Cheryl was a big part of this community. She took up every space 
she was in. She was a big personality. She was one of the people in 
the first all-women's band here, named TranSister. She was a bass 
player and a lead singer. She also, when they were in TranSister, 
they would all take turns playing different instruments. That was 
another big social gathering. People all came to a lot of those 
different performances, Wallflower Order and TranSister  and 
WYMPROV!, and all of the things that were going on then.  
 She was involved with a woman for about three years before we 
got involved, and they had a daughter through an agreement with 
a gay man. They had broken up, and they were still living together,  
and I used to babysit for Shalan. So, we got together when Shalan  
was two, and so she was biologically Barb's daughter, and Cheryl 
was a “psychological parent.” She petitioned the court for custody, 
but then they wouldn't do that so they called it psychological 
parenting. We had Shalan  half time her whole life, and so 
whenever we took trips or did things like that, we had to get 
power-of-attorneys, we had to do all of that. I had to pay a different 
insurance policy to cover her. I had a different insurance policy for 
Cheryl before the city would do those things.  
 And then Taylor, we got to know a gay couple, and we wanted to 
have a sibling for her, so we— well, it was illegal, but I inseminated 
Cheryl and our son Taylor was born.  
Raiskin:  That was illegal?  
Adams:  It was, because we did it just on our own. There was no clinical 
doctor yet.  
Raiskin:  I had never heard that was illegal.  
Adams:  Yes. 
Long:  But it's not illegal for a man and a woman to have sex, exchange 
bodily fluids.  
Adams:  Right, right. Yes, bodily fluids. But it is if you're doing it in a 
different way. We also wanted his fathers to be involved in his life,  
and so they've consistently been in his whole life.   
Raiskin:  Were they in your daughter's life, as well?  
Adams:  They took that roll on in a really good way. It was great, because 
her father kind of abandoned her through all of this.  
Raiskin:  What year was your son born?  
Adams:  He was born in '93, and she was born in '86.  
Raiskin:  Okay. Did you have any support from any lesbian parenting 
groups or anything?  
Adams:  You know, it's interesting because a lot of gay people hadn't had 
kids, and so there was really no— they  were clueless about a lot of 
things. They'd be having a party and they'd say, "Well, are you 
coming to the party?", and we'd say, "Well, Taylor's got a fever." 
They'd say, "Well, you're coming anyway aren't you?" We'd say, 
"No, we're not. We're  taking care of our child."  
 And our kids, their friends, most of their parents were straight, so 
we pretty much had— we had some consistent friends in our lives, 
gay friends that we've had forever, and so we had that support 
network. But really, most of our friends were families of our kids' 
friends, and we spend most of our time on playing fields for 
Kidsports and those types of things.  
Raiskin:  Did you feel accepted in that community, and did you have any 
issues at school?   
Adams:  You know, we had more issues than our kids did. I'll never forget 
one time because Shalan  was in pre-school, and I remember Cheryl 
just being completely freaked out because she heard this little kid 
ask her, she goes, "Well, how can you have three moms?" Cheryl 
was so freaked out about that stuff, and Shalan  was just so matter-
of-fact. She goes, "Well, my mom Cheryl and Barb used to be 
together, and then they broke up. And then my mom Cheryl and 
Donna got together, and so now I have three moms." And that was 
it.  
 Our kids were so matter-of-fact about their lives, and they felt so 
comfortable. I don't think that there was ever— We didn't have a 
lot of issues. I'm sure there were people that didn't let their kids 
play with our kids, but we never experienced that. We were kind of 
the house to go to. We had kids at our house for slumber parties 
every weekend. We were pretty much, we were the— 
Raiskin:  What elementary school did your kids go to?  
Adams:  They went to Magnet Arts, and then they went to Kennedy, and 
then they went to Churchill International High School. Both of 
them.  
Boles:  Yeah. I guess I want to underscore a point that Donna made, which 
is that the relationships that people had where they worked, with 
their friends, their straight friends, how important that was. We've 
said at different times how important it is to come out, because 
when people know you and know the quality— I knew Donna, not  
well, but I knew her at the city and I knew how well she was 
respected in that part of the organization. So, when people do good 
work and they have their act together, and then they are who they 
are, I think there's as much impact from that as there is from the 
political stuff.  
 I'd be the last person in the world to say that political stuff isn't 
important. I think it's absolutely crucial, but there's that whole 
other person aspect that I think is just equally important, and 
Donna was such an example of somebody who had their act 
together even though the rest of us are going, "Well, why aren't you 
coming to the party?" "We're going to Riv Room. Come on, come 
on!" 
Adams:  I think that's how acceptance grows. I think acceptance grows 
through lack of fear and understanding, and I think that so much of 
the fear and so much— I think that that's what causes all that 
divisiveness and all of that pain and hurt. I always had like a foot 
in two different worlds as we did this, we had a lot of things in 
common with all of those people, including all of the gay 
community. I think that was my way of moving the effort forward, 
is through just having good, solid relationships with people and 
having them see that we're no different and our lives are the same. 
We all pay our taxes and do our work, and want to raise our kids 
and be happy.  
Raiskin:  Do you want to tell us more about Cheryl's activities?   
Adams: Yeah. Cheryl did a lot of things. Cheryl was in bands the whole 
time, and she got her degree while we were together. She got her 
Master's of Fine Arts. She was also an artist and a photographer, 
and had a lot of exhibits all over the place. She was the center of 
every party or every room she ever walked into. She had this 
presence about her, and she had an incredible sense of humor. She 
was just a very empathic and very compassionate person who 
would do anything for anybody.  
 I brought a few little things that are memorabilia's that I can show 
you.  
Raiskin: Why don't you show us— 
Adams:  Can I show you one thing? Just one thing?  
Long:  Okay. Yeah.  
Adams:  Because this was TranSister  back in the day. This is kind of a— 
Raiskin:  It's fantastic.  
Adams:  Yeah. And that's one thing we didn't talk about, is everybody had a 
mullet or a rat tail. But it was pretty good.  
Raiskin:  That is fantastic.  
Adams:  Cheryl's in the middle. So it was just we were a good partnership, 
and we kind of made agreements around things. I  took on kind of 
the support role and did the job and brought home the paychecks, 
and she was able to do more of the creative stuff and be there for  
the kids a lot of the times. They went to daycare and school and all 
those things, and so she had time to do other things, but it was just 
we kind of had this really good working relationship that way.  
 And then, speaking of things that you deal with in life around 
being gay, she died when we were on vacation in St. Croix, and St. 
Croix doesn't recognize those  relationships. So, we were fortunate 
enough to have had our ducks in a row and had all the paperwork 
for directives in place, and were able to have those faxed to us 
immediately so that I could make decisions, but it's a struggle. 
There's still a lot of places in the world where there are things that 
people have to do differently as a gay couple even if you, you 
know— 
Raiskin:  So, in the midst of your shock and grief, you had to deal with these 
bureaucratic issues?  
Adams:  Yes, and I had to be there for five days. I was with some good 
friends who are in the community. You've probably talked to them, 
too, Susie Grimes and Penelope. If it wasn't for them, I would have 
not ever made it through all of that. Susie just kind of took the reins  
and really helped me,  because I was a mess and I needed to get 
home to the kids. So, it took a long time to— 
Long:  What year was that?  
Adams:  This was in '15, 2015.  
Long:  Wow.   
Adams:  In May. And I think, when did the marriage thing go federal? July?  
Raiskin:  June. Early June.  
Adams:  June. Yeah, right after. Yeah.  
Boles:  Yeah. I don't know, because we were talking amongst ourselves 
before we came over here, and one of the things that Donna said, 
and I think it's really true. I don't have the data to corroborate, but 
so many lesbians in their work worked for a governmental agency 
or a non-profit. In so many cases, it was like you want to help. You 
want your work to feel like you're doing something for the 
community or something for other people. Carole's a good 
example. When you were doing the fundraising thing for the 
ONRC. Yeah, you should tell about that.  
Bennett:  Well, I had Arrow Maintenance Carpet Cleaning and Wood Floor 
Refinishing business for eleven  years. I started it with Linda Phelps, 
and she was there for the first two years and then she went on to 
graduate school. During that eleven  year period, I had a lot of 
different other jobs because running the business I worked five 
days a week at these accounts, and then on weekends I got to a 
place where I could hire people. There were a total of thirty-eight  
women who worked for Arrow Maintenance as sub-contractors, 
because our bookkeeper said, "Well, they can't be employees." Do 
everything we can to kind of skirt paying taxes and liability, and 
being responsible.   
 These are the other people who worked at the North Bank, which 
was our bread and butter account. My mother, my two sisters, my 
two nephews, one niece, Judy was one of the thirty-eight  people. It 
was between careers, between jobs, or they needed extra money, or 
"Hey,  let's go work for Arrow Maintenance." I mean, we never, ever 
had a shortage of people who would come and cover at work.  
 And then, during that time, I just want to make a quick note too, 
about my earlier statement. That when I moved to Eugene I would 
never have to hire a man electrician. I could hire women of all the 
trades and professions. Then Linda and I started the Arrow 
Maintenance in the summer of '78 because we needed money, and I 
think we paid $56 a month rent each for four people. And we said, 
"Well, what can we do? Ah, well let's just get a job doing yard 
work, maintenance." Okay, so we did that, and we have many 
funny stories to tell just how unbelievably irresponsible we were.  
 I have to tell this part, because Linda and I sometimes refer to it 
being one of the funniest things ever, but at the moment we just 
wanted to be resourceful. So we end up at this job. It's out in the 
country on the way to the airport, one of those small farms. And so 
the woman was, "I want to see you girls weed this and  weed that." 
So, okay. We went to get our tools, and Linda said, "Did you bring 
the—?" "No, did you? I thought you did." "No." So, we had really 
no tools, but we didn't want the woman to know it. So we found an 
old dog bone that was the perfect shape like a big spoon, and we 
weeded that whole area with a dog bone.   
 And then when the woman— we had to hide out. Then it was 
lunchtime, and of course it's lunchtime, we want to have our lunch. 
So we take our little sandwiches and we're sitting down in the 
shade eating, and the woman comes over and said, "You need to 
get to work." "Well, we were just having lunch." "I'm not paying 
you for having lunch." "Okay." She said, "I want to see your noses 
down and your butt's in the air."  
 In the early stage it was kind of  romantic. You know, "Oh, isn't 
wonderful? We can go to work and then we collect money, and we 
hardly have to do anything."  
 So the next thing we know, it's October and the rains are starting. 
"Oh, what are we going to do? I don't want to work in the rain." So, 
I don't know where we got the idea, but we said, "Well, what about 
carpet and upholstery cleaning?" I think maybe a truck went by 
that said carpet and upholstery cleaning. And we went, this is the 
way we did research, we made in-person face-to-face visits to all 
the janitorial services in town, four or five of them, and always run 
by men. We walked in and said, "We want to start a carpet cleaning 
business. Could you show us your equipment?" And some eye-
rolls. Mostly they talked, they had their hands tucked in their 
pockets rattling change, and we got nowhere.  
 So, finally, when we were almost exasperated but not fully, we 
made a call to industrial chemical lab. I'll say his first name, Clark. 
So we'd say the pitch, "Hi, we are—" and this was over the  phone. 
"We want to look at some equipment. We need to learn how to  
carpet clean." I don't know if we said that much, if we revealed that 
much, "Carpet and upholstery cleaning." And this was his 
response, "Well, do you now?" We said, "Yes, we do." He said,  
"Well, what do you girls, I mean, women," he said. "Now I know 
my wife who's divorcing me says you should not call women girls." 
He said, "Well, listen girls. I mean, women. Why don't we meet at 
my office? 5th Street Public Market."  
 The fall of 1978, there was nothing there. There was this old loading 
dock, and then maybe Allan  Brothers. Linda and I are really 
excited. So in walks Clark, who was in some ways amused, but he 
was not a misogynist, and he was really thrilled that we wanted to 
do this work. Probably he saw that we would be good customers. 
After an hour of explaining this, he told us about him, and he said, 
"You know? How about this, girls? How about if I loan you the 
carpet upholstery cleaning, all the tools that you need, and I'll give 
you the supplies for the first few jobs. You line them up, I'll show 
up, and I'll show you how to do all this."  
 And he did that for many months, but the funny part was he did— 
you know, we just kind of, was it Huck Finn or Tom Sawyer? "Oh 
really? How do you do  that?" So, he did the whole job. Then we 
moved to wood floor refinishing. I don't know where that came 
from, but it might have been one of his suggestions. At the time, 
there weren 't any environmentally friendly materials, and it was 
urethane or polyurethane or something. It was just complete brain- 
deadening materials, but we persevered and we refinished floors, 
carpet cleaning.  
 Oh, okay. We put our ad in the paper, and invariably we would 
get— I mean, we never had a scarcity of work. One lady called us 
and she said, "Girls, do you remove black— ?" "Oh yes, we do, we 
do." So we cleared out lots of blackberries from her house, and we 
went to the door and I said, "Well, we're finished with the 
blackberries," which was at the end of the day, and she goes, "Oh  
well, girls do you clean carpets?" "Yes, we do."  
 That's the person who got us into it, carpet cleaning, because we 
would always say, "Yes, we do." And then we would leave and say, 
"We've got to go learn how to do this." So, that's where the carpet 
cleaning came in, so I was wrong in thinking that a car went by. But 
that kind of spontaneity was often at work.  
 We did the carpet cleaning, Clark came, again, months after 
months the equipment. This was expensive equipment, and he was 
only too delighted to be  so helpful. He was our mentor. I still know 
him. I still buy products to clean my house.  
 Okay, so this was a funny part that Linda, always more practical 
and sensible than I. We were in the garage. She said, "Girls," this 
was the same lady, "Girls, I want you to come and look at 
something." We went in the garage and she had this awesome, 
about a 1956 Dodge Coronet. I mean, a real classic. And she said, 
"Girls, do you paint cars?", and I said— Linda says, "No, we don't."  
And I was crushed, because my dad was in that business, and I 
thought, well we'll just bring him over here somehow, or we'll take 
the car, I don't know. I thought we could branch out. And then we 
left, and I said, "Well, Linda," and she said, "No, we don't paint cars 
and we're not going to paint cars."  
 So, I'll just wrap this up by saying that in that interim of 1978 to 
1990 when I ran the business, I also did fundraising for Oregon 
Natural Resources Council. I produced auctions and other events 
that had been ongoing with Oregon Natural Resources Council. I 
also got my massage license, and I don't know, I was just was 
always wanting to do other things besides— excuse me.  
Boles:  Yes, Carole  was fabulous at asking people for things. She'd ask and 
they would say “Yes.” If I asked somebody they'd say, "Are you 
crazy? No." But Carole  would ask and they'd say “Yes.” 
 So, for example, the Nissan dealer— 
Bennett:  Eugene Nissan. Yeah, I procured a lot of things. I just got on the 
phone and got trips to the Amazon, Copper Canyon, just these 
fantastic gifts. I was delighted. I loved it, and people were kind of 
like, "Whoa, you got that?" "Uh-huh." And we had two years of 
very successful auctions.  
 But my brother-in-law worked for Eugene Nissan, and somehow I 
got the idea that maybe we could get a car donated to the auction. 
And low and behold, after just a few meetings the owner gave us a 
car. It was one of the fancier kind of sports car type of Nissan. It  
didn't sell, but we did have, like I said, successful auctions. Well, he 
caught a lot of flack from  the timber industry. I don't know if they 
picketed, but they made it known that they weren't happy with 
him.  
 So yeah, that was like I said, I had a lot of stop-gap jobs, so I was 
never really career oriented and was finally forced when I thought, 
"Oh my  God, I'm forty-eight  years old. I don't have a pension plan. 
I don't have— I better get busy," so I went to New Mexico to study 
acupuncture, and ended up after a year going and getting my MSW 
at Highlands University. From then, 1993 to 2009 I worked in social 
work, mental health, with foster kids and children who were, the 
term was severely emotionally disturbed children, at Mount Shasta 
Mountain Center and Lane County Mental Health.  
Boles:  Carole  is perfect example of lesbians in the community whose work 
was always about helping somebody.  
Adams:  I think that a group that is oppressed has a tendency, it seems, for 
every cause in this community. Whenever there's a cause for 
anybody that's been oppressed, the lesbians are always there in 
pretty good numbers.  I think it always has been that way.  
 I remember meeting you again at one of those after-hour parties at 
the Excelsior when you were doing their floors.  
Boles:  —the basement.  
Bennett:  We were doing their floors while we were partying?   
Adams:  Well, you were going to do the floors after the party was over. All 
those people from all of the co-ops were there. It was like Jennifer 
Carey from Starflower and who was it? Nancy Strong and Susan.  
Boles:  Nancy Strong, yeah.  
Raiskin:  So, you knew all the people who were working at Starflower and at 
the other collectives?  
Bennett:  Yes. 
Boles:  Yes. 
Adams:  Yeah.  
Bennett:  Yes. In fact, Starflower was one of our jobs. Cleaning the trucks.  
Raiskin:  Oh, what was that like?  
Bennett:  The semis or the bobtails that they transported all their goods 
around the northwest. Yeah, it was one of our jobs. It was just a lot 
of fun because you always had women and we made our own 
hours, and very relaxed work. But once we got to the job we 
wanted to do a fantastic job. And here always times in the wood 
floor refinishing when you hit a wall, like if you're running a 
marathon, and we would stand and look and say, "Oh my God. 
What are we going to do? This is terrible." And then we would 
persevere, and then pretty soon we'd cross that barrier, whatever it 
was, and then it turned out fine.   
 But afterwards, we always had to drink beer. And now I know why 
painters drink, because there's something in that noxious 
petroleum product that makes you just want to drink a beer.  
Boles:  You know, we should say something about Linda Phelps too, 
because Linda was such an important person in the community. A 
couple things that she did, she worked at the recreation program. I 
called it specialized recreation then, but it was for people with 
disabilities and doing programs for people in that population. 
Linda became the director of that program, and one of the things 
that she did, she applied for a grant from HUD and she got money. 
It was the first time anybody got HUD money to do something like 
this. She was responsible for getting the Hilyard Community 
Center built. They had an architect, but they also worked 
collaboratively with people who used the center so that it had one 
of the first hearing loops built into the center. And that, I don't 
know if it was the  first in Eugene, but it was— 
Raiskin:  Can you describe what a hearing loop is?  
Boles:  Okay. They have one now they just put in at the Shed, but 
essentially if you have hearing loss your hearing thing can 
somehow, it amplifies through this loop. So it's a hearing assist for 
people who, like me, can't hear diddly. But not like me, people who 
really have really severe hearing issues.  
 And the year after they finished the center, the ADA passed, the 
ADA Bill. They had like only two very minor things that they  had  
to do the center to comply with the law. Everybody else was like, 
"Oh, I have to rebuild this and that." I mean, it was massive, but it 
was— and that's another example that Linda, the kind of work that 
she did was about helping people.  
 She and Susan Sygall were a part of the original founders of 
MIUSA.  
Raiskin:  Mobility International USA.  
Adams:  Yes. 
Boles:  Yeah. This was way, way back really in the early days, and now we 
know that a lot of what they do is they bring people with 
disabilities from different countries here to talk about how do you 
get things organized to get the things that— 
Bennett:  Accessibility.  
Boles:  The access and the facilities that you need in your country to make 
life workable for somebody with disabilities. And I have to tell a 
story about it because one of the very first groups to come here, 
they came from Russia. And the people who were in that group 
stayed at different homes, because of course there was— I mean, 
this is early, early days. In fact, I did their first financial  statement.  
 But Linda and Susan and other people, Susie Grimes was involved 
too, but I think that was later. But these gals, and there might have 
been one or two guys but most of the people who came from the 
delegation were women. And one of the things then, that if you  
were a MIUSA supporter then they'd decide okay, they were going 
to put on kind of a feed, and the Russians did all the food, which 
was fabulous. I made a total pig of myself on some kind of egg 
salad thing that was so good.  
 But anyway, we're in Laurie McClain's backyard, and all the 
Russian gals are there and we're having this great time, and they 
had gone shopping previously. And Laurie's house, you could 
walk to Valley River Center kind of a back way across the bridge. 
And they had been to Valley River Center, and of course they went 
shopping for all the food and all of that. So, we're yak, yak, yak. We 
think we have identified the gal who's their minder, because at that 
time people didn't leave the Soviet Union without somebody from 
the Communist Party with them. We thought we knew who that 
was because of the way people interacted, and just her affect, which 
was— . 
 So, we're all having a great time, and pretty soon though, it's time 
to leave and everybody's going to leave. Well, two of the gals are 
missing. Uh-oh, where's so and so and so and so? So, someone said, 
well in fact I think it was me that said— 
Adams:  Of course it was.  
Boles:  "Well, they probably defected." I'm telling you, that gal that we 
thought was the Party minder, she did  not think that was one bit 
funny. And where they had gone, they had walked back over to 
Valley River Center. They didn't have money to shop, but they  
were feeling the merchandise over there and ultimately they came 
back.  
Bennett:  Wow.  
Boles:  Linda was at  that time the president of the board, and has stayed 
involved in MIUSA. I think she's back on the board or she's 
president of the board back again now. So, there's just another 
instance of people doing good.  
 Well, I have to say about myself, you think if  you're a government 
grunt. Everybody thinks they’re arrrrrrrh [mumbles], they're 
standing around holding up a shovel. Actually, one of the things 
that we did at Springfield, we did an advance refunding and we 
got our bond rating increased, and actually that saves millions of 
dollars. It depends on how much debt you take on, how much 
building you do, but that was a significant effort that was 
something, although nobody says anything. "Oh, the great finance 
department," ever. But— 
Raiskin:  I wanted to ask you, so we have enough time to talk about your 
feeling about aging in Eugene, or aging as lesbians?  
Boles:  It sucks. Really. Because you can't— I just got a new hip, so I'm 
actually good to go for a little bit longer, but yeah. I mean, it's not— 
Well, I want  to keep my experience of course, but if I could roll 
back to thirty-five, perfect.   
 Yeah, you start having health issues, and when I laugh and say I 
can't remember things, I really can't remember things. I have to call 
up Carole. "Carole, when— ?"  
Raiskin: Is there anything specific of being a lesbian in aging?  
Adams:  I have something. As I age, my dream would be to be in a 
community with gay women again, and also, but still have my own 
space. I really need my own space. So, I do like the idea because 
there's so many gay people that are alone, and they don't want to 
go back into the closet and go in a fifty-five and older home where 
you can't be who you are or feel not supported.  
 For me, I mean I've talked to Susie about it. It's like, "Let's just build 
a bunch of tiny homes and then have like a community space and a 
community garden and all those things," because I think it would 
be really— I mean, we've all been around each other and been 
friends for forty, fifty years, so it's like for me, that would be a 
wonderful thing to downsize and do that. I mean, I'll have family 
and I'll have grandkids and I'll do all of those things, but it just 
would be I think nice to have that community feel again.  
Boles:  Yeah.  
Bennett:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Do you feel—  
Adams:  Early '70s was that same kind of thing. That's where people really 
came together, and then people kind of drifted into all of these 
different avenues.  
Raiskin:  Can you imagine a realistic avenue to get there?  
Adams:  Yes, sure. Just some zoning changes. You know, some zoning 
changes and people that have a like-minded vision. I mean, I think 
the vision is probably the biggest part of that.  
Raiskin:  A lot of people have the vision, and just a few people really have 
the expertise in terms of city governments and  ideas about zoning 
and some real estate.  
Adams:  Yes. Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Everybody needs their floors cleaned and carpets cleaned.  
Adams:  Yes, there's a big pool there of a lot of different expertise and a lot 
of different skills and a lot of different things, so I think that it's a 
totally doable thing. In Oregon, especially. There's so much land. I 
don't know. I don't mind aging. I feel fortunate that I'm here, and 
with Cheryl's death, it's fleeting, so I think it's a blessing every day.  
Boles:  Yeah.  
Raiskin: Carole, do you have ideas about aging as a lesbian?  
Bennett:  Aging, yeah it's difficult for me because my mind in some ways is 
still thinking in a younger way. I think I've said this before during 
this interview, that I haven't really been very future-oriented, but  
I've always felt as though opportunities present themselves. At one 
time, I lived in New Mexico, Judy lived in New Mexico. She moved 
down there for a while, too. This was twenty-five, almost thirty  
years ago, and we talked about, "Oh, we'll get a ranch and we'll 
have small homes, and we'll have horses. It'll just be a big ranch 
with all women, and we'll retire there." But again, not thinking 
about the future in a real way then, I was thinking, "Yeah, that 
sounds great." But I was picturing myself the age that I was then, 
and not now, or older.  
 I don't know how it's going to look, and I don't know where I fit in. 
That is something I— 
Raiskin:  What do you mean?  
Bennett:  What do I mean?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]— 
Bennett:  I guess in way, I'm not sure about my need or desire to live in a 
lesbian community. I haven't figured it out. I haven't tried to. I'm 
just going along as I always have, thinking that I'm on the way to 
somewhere. But I don't know if somebody needs to be a lesbian for 
me to— Maybe it's just the way I've integrated, the way we have 
integrated, because as all of us have worked in not exclusively 
lesbian  organizations or businesses.  I guess that's my next 
threshold to cross over.   
Raiskin:  So, it's something about critical mass. Like you don't want to be the 
only one in assisted living who's a lesbian, but you don't 
necessarily need everybody to be a lesbian.  
Bennett:  Right. I guess, and I haven't articulated it. That's probably been one 
of my secrets, but the whole idea of not living in my own house, I 
haven't gotten there yet. But in some places like Santa Fe where 
there's a lot of wealthy people, there is a lesbian/gay retirement 
home that's very, very expensive, and we have friends who have 
their name on the list. They're looking  towards the future in a very 
practical way, and very wise way, and I haven't gotten there yet but 
I'm expecting maybe somebody like Donna or Judy will say, "Hey, 
we've got this idea. What do you think? Do you want to?" "Okay."  
Raiskin:  It's worked so far.  
Bennett:  Yes, it's true. Yes it has.  
Boles:  Yeah. No, and it's true, because we actually have talked about this 
over the years. It's like, well Donna was smart, but the rest of us are 
like, "Wait a minute. How come I didn't have kids? I was not 
thinking ahead here."  
Adams:  My son thinks I'm going to live with him. He says, "When you're 
old you're going to live with me." And I said, "Well, I don't know if 
that's going to be the case. I have other things that I'd like to do."   
Bennett:  And Donna has stayed with a career and a job long term, which is 
one of the ways in which you can be dependent upon your pension, 
your retirement. That's the way it's done.  
Boles:  But we have talked about you buy a big house, and then you hire 
somebody who makes the meals and does whatever, but 
everybody's got their own space. But as long as whoever is 
managing it is reporting to you, then you're retaining some control 
over what goes on, and we've talked about stuff like that over the 
years but nobody's grabbed the bull by the horns yet.  
Adams:  Yeah. Well, Susie's got the property, we just don't have the zoning.  
Boles:  There we go.  
Raiskin:  Donna, I wanted to ask you about when Cheryl died, how it was 
for you in the community?  
Adams:  Oh, it was so supportive. I mean, the support from the community 
and not just the gay community, the music community. There was 
over 300 people that came to her Celebration of Life, and people 
played music and did— I mean, everybody pulled together and 
just were phenomenal. She touched a lot of people, so there was 
pretty much people from every segment of the community.  
Raiskin:  And how has been for you socially? I know it's true for many 
people who are widowed that they were with couples, and then it's 
difficult.   
Adams:  Yes. The grief process is a roller coaster. The first year, my whole 
life was around getting my kids through the firsts. The first 
Christmas, the first Thanksgiving, the first birthdays, the first 
anniversary, so I was really focused on that. I have a lot of very 
close friends who have never— they  were friends with Cheryl or 
just friends with me or both, and so I haven't felt like a third wheel 
at all in any of that, because the people that I'm close to are very 
connected.  
 The second year was a really hard year for me, because that's  when 
the sorting has to happen, where you decide what you're going to 
let go of and what you're not. Which traditions you're going to 
keep. What we're going to do in our family. So the second year was 
a really hard year, and I kind of isolated a little bit during that 
second year and then I kind of rolled out of it during the third year.  
Raiskin:  And the kids aren't living at home?  
Adams:  No. My daughter is married, and she got married after Cheryl died. 
Cheryl got to help. Cheryl picked the wedding dress,  which was 
great. My daughter and son-in-law live in Eugene. They have a 
house, and they are going through an adoption process now, so I'm 
going to be a grandmother sometime soon. My son is doing his 
master's work down in Miami. We just did a 3,600 mile road trip to 
take his car there for his second year.  
 It's been a roller coaster, but I feel like the support has been there.  
Raiskin:  Have you been involved in any online or in town grief groups?   
Adams:  No. I've done counseling in the past, and I feel like  I have the 
support I need through it so I haven't really done any online stuff. 
I'm at that place in my life now where, I mean Cheryl, that was it, 
and so I really don't see myself getting involved again and doing 
that whole thing. Aging is different now,  because I expected to be 
able to do that with her. Now I'm looking at it in a different way 
than I was before, so that's kind of that community would be an 
important part of that for me because I still want companionship, I 
just don't think I want to do that whole thing again.  
Raiskin:  You've all individually and collectively led very rich lives here in 
Eugene, and have just had so much experience. We've been asking 
everybody who we're talking to to imagine a young person 
watching this video, either soon or in twenty  years, or from a small 
town somewhere because it's available, is there any advice that you 
would give to a young person about a best way to live or 
something from your experience?  
Adams:  That's a big question. I would say live authentically. Be  who you 
are. I'm very grateful for people that paved the way for me in the 
past, and I see shifts in our society now that are positive, aside from 
some other things that are going on now. But I think that with 
being gay, it's not a generational thing, so there's a lot of backward 
steps. It's like one step forward, two steps back. Other people can 
say, "This will never happen to us again." You know, the Jewish 
community or the African American community, and so I would 
say keep that in mind. Sometimes those  steps may not seem much,  
but it is a spiral up. It is moving forward. I would say live 
authentically and the rest will follow.  
Bennett:  I guess find a lesbian community. Find a gay or lesbian community. 
Sorry, I'm drawing a blank about what I would— my niece is a 
lesbian. Actually out of my nine cousins, there's three of us, and it 
is fifty years since I came out in increments. I could one on one be 
very supportive and connect with that person and maybe think 
about it at the time, but as far as a philosophical view or two, I can't 
articulate what I would say.  
Boles:  You know, the other thing that we kind of have remarked on is 
how being more accepted and more integrated into the community, 
we have in some way kind of lost some of the uniqueness and some 
of the stuff that we did. And you look back and “Oh,” and now 
we're all just going about our business and some of that's lost.  
 I hope that, I mean of course I want more integration, more 
acceptance, more— And I think it's inevitable. I think you go 
forward and then maybe you come back a little bit, but I'm 
fundamentally an optimist and so I think it works out.  
 But I would say, kind of hang on a little bit to your uniqueness. As 
a lesbian or a gay man, that there are things that I think are unique 
about us, and as much as that was a horrible thing when you 
maybe were a little kid and it was terrifying, now I think that's 
good. I said to a man sometime, he said, "Oh, I love women." "Yeah, 
me too."   
 So, you have an appreciation for people that you shouldn’t lose. 
You should be okay with what's unique about being a lesbian, and 
don't lose that entirely.  
Raiskin:  Politically we had to make the argument that we're just like you, 
but that erases the ways we're not just like you.  
Adams:  That's right.  
Boles:  Exactly.   
Adams:  Yeah, there's an independence component of that, that we didn't 
have someone else to rely on for periods in our lives, and so I think 
we gained skills that a lot of people didn't gain out of necessity, and 
I think those things are all really strong points for gay people.  
Boles:  Well, there's a culture there that you don't want to completely 
abandon.  
Adams:  No. 
Boles:  And something about being a lesbian that is unique, that's not the 
same as being— I mean, sexuality obviously is a continuum, so at 
any point in your life maybe you're over here and the next time 
you're a little bit more over there, but there's something precious 
about it that we shouldn't lose entirely.  
Adams:  I went clothes shopping with a straight friend of mine, and she was 
trying to get me dressed up for this wedding. She wanted to do my 
makeup, and I said, "You know, you have understand when I do  
this I feel like I'm in drag. When you do this, you're having a great 
old time and you think it's just okay, but this is different. It's  a 
different perspective." It's just a different perspective and 
experience.  
Raiskin:  When you— 
Boles:  Go ahead.  
Raiskin:  I was going to say, when you look back on your time, your life, 
your time in Eugene, what would you say has been your greatest 
joy? 
Boles:  Friends, for sure.  
Bennett:  Well— Pardon?  
Boles:  Friends.  
Bennett:  Yes. That's why I stayed in Eugene, because of community and the 
continuity. And thank you for doing this project, because it's 
brought something to fruition for me. That yes, I did live this. You 
know, there's a beginning, and a middle, and an end at this point. I 
guess it's a sense of belonging. I belong in history now. The whole 
lesbian thing, it's kind of blurry to me. When you ask questions 
about lesbian, it's like, "Wow, that's just a part of me." I suppose I 
could study it or be more introspective about it, but thank you for 
doing this project. It's been a gift, because that's why I lived here, 
because of the women.   
 And the other aspect of it, when my lesbianism is not driven by  
sexuality or libido, then who am I? Because are you a lesbian if 
you're not practicing lesbian sex? A rhetorical question, I don't 
know.  
Adams:  I am.  
Boles:  Another part of the aging thing.  
Adams:  [inaudible 01:45:33]  
Bennett:  Yeah that too, and that is a part of it. When you're older, it's like, 
"Well, I used to know what that meant." Now, we are all friends. 
It's family, your cousins, or a neighborhood. It's a neighborhood of 
people, a community of people.  
 This interview has really brought up some more  thinking. 
Something I'm not going to be able to avoid, I can tell now.  
Adams:  Also for me, this was the perfect town to feel fortunate and to be 
able to raise a family in, and to have a family as a lesbian couple. I 
don't think that there's a lot of towns  that we could have done that 
in. I know there are some, but Eugene was really a great 
community and support. And the city was already structured in so 
many ways to support those things. I mean there was challenges, 
yes. There's still inequity, there's still issues, there's still all sorts of 
things. But that was my biggest blessing, was being able to have a 
family here.  
Raiskin:  I want to thank you so much for this interview.   
Long:  Yes, thank you.  
Raiskin:  It's been really lovely.  
Adams:  Thank you.  
Bennett: Thank you, Julee. 
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  