  
 
Long:  This interview is part of the Eugene Lesbian Oral History Project. 
The recordings will be made available through the University of 
Oregon Libraries’ Special Collections and University Archives. 
This is an oral history interview with Judy Goldstein on September 
12, 2018, taking place in the University of Oregon Libraries’ 
recording studio in the Center for Media and Educational 
Technologies. The interviewers are Linda Long, Curator of 
Manuscripts in the UO Library's Special Collections and 
University Archives, and Professor Judith Raiskin of the UO 
Department of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies.  Judy, 
please let us know if you agree to be recorded for this project, and 
that you give your permission for the University to preserve and 
make available your recorded and transcribed interview.  
Goldstein:  I do.   
Long:  Thank you. Let's start with a basic question.  Please tell us when 
and where you were born, where you grew up, and something 
about your early background.  
Goldstein:  I was born on December 12, 1946 in Manhattan, New York. 
Apparently, it was a very snowy day. And my parents, we then 
moved to Queens, and then did the big move east—it was kind of 
the opposite of what I did when I moved to Oregon—to Long 
Island. And I grew up in Long Island, in Roslyn Heights. And I'm 
the oldest of three children. I have a brother and a sister who are, 
obviously then, younger.  
 It was a development, we lived in a development that was built by 
Levitt, of the famous Levittown fame, but it wasn't Levittown. 
Kind of a few iterations after. Pretty sweet suburban life. One of 
my mother's sisters lived next door to us, and so my cousins were 
there. We rode bicycles wherever, played in our front yards and 
our backyards and the driveways.  
 If I took a fall on the sidewalk, I remember this one time, other 
neighbors that I didn't necessarily know would come out and 
bandage me up and walk me home. It felt very safe. It was very 
white, and it was predominantly Jewish.  
Raiskin:  What was your temperament as a kid?  
Goldstein:  I was happy. I was happy. I felt loved. I don't know. I liked school. 
I had after school activities, and life seemed really sweet. My 
parents were liberals, and actually, my father's family— my  
parents are first generation Americans. All my grandparents 
emigrated from Russia in the early 1900s, through Ellis Island. 
And my father's family were involved with the Bund in Russia, 
which was a socialist organization. There is a story that wasn't told 
often, or referred to, but I know that my father was arrested in a 
socialist march in New York in the '30s, and it almost prevented 
him from passing the bar.  
 But we were raised more as liberal Jews, and I do remember— I 
don't  know if this is when we first got a television set, because my 
cousins next door had one before we did, but we had one for the 
McCarthy hearings, and I was allowed to stay in the room if I 
didn't say a word. And it was really serious. They were very upset, 
of course, I'd say.  
Long:  Did they know any of the people who were brought up before 
HUAC?  
Goldstein:  Personally?  
Long:  Yeah.  
Goldstein:  I don't think so. I don't think so, but they were well aware of the 
subtleties and non-subtleties of what was happening. I don't 
remember going to marches or protests with my parents. I do 
remember that my high school was— the football team, and my 
circle I guess, weren't the big heroes, but there were kids that went 
on SNCC marches, and older kids. This was a junior/senior high  
school. And those were the heroes to me and other of my 
colleagues.  
Long:  So, during the civil rights movement?  
Goldstein:  Right, right. I went to a state school in New York for college. There 
was no question about college, in my mind or my parents' minds, 
and I went to the State University of New York at Buffalo, 
SUNYAB, when I was seventeen. It was the best state school at the 
time.  
Raiskin:  Did you go with friends? I'm trying— your  social scene in high 
school.  
Goldstein:  Oh. 
Raiskin:  What was that like? And did you have to leave things behind?  
Goldstein:  Very connected, lots of girlfriends  and boyfriends. And it was very 
hard to leave my high school boyfriend. He went off to Wisconsin, 
and I went off to Buffalo. I think  I wrote him letters often on 
femme-y stationery and bought books of poetry to copy into the 
letters. But, thinking about this interview and what I was doing, I 
did register voters in Buffalo, that very first semester there. This 
would be the fall of '64.  
 I just remember being— I must've gone downtown. We went to an 
area of town that was predominantly Black, African American, 
and I must've gone there with people, but I was definitely on these  
floors by myself. And I felt a bit brave, but I felt it was doing the 
right thing.  
Long:  What did you study in college?  
Goldstein:  Oh, psychology. I went in thinking maybe French or mathematics, 
and before the first term was over, I knew those weren't going to 
be my majors.  I wound up majoring in psychology. It was the 
course that didn't feel like doing homework. It felt like it was just 
fun to study, so that's where I studied.  
 There was a plan at some point to go on to graduate school, but it 
never happened. I did— well, sometime later, when I moved back 
to New York City, which is what I thought was the center of the 
universe at the time, literally, I checked out Hunter College and I 
took a class at the New School for Social Research, which I think is 
still in existence. But I never pursued furthering my education 
formally.  
Raiskin:  In high school and college, did you know anything about lesbians, 
or any language or crushes or anything?  
Goldstein:  No, I would say, except this really negative thing about— 
something  people were teased about, something like, if you wore 
green and yellow on Thursdays, you were lesbian. And it was like, 
"Giggle giggle," but I kind of knew what it meant. I knew what it 
meant, but not really. And in college, I was still very focused on 
guys. I do remember though, when I was the very end of my last 
term, a senior, people knocking on the door of where I was living  
to interview me for a friend who was wanting to be in the Peace 
Corps.  She had to be interviewed by the FBI, and one of the things 
they asked me was if she was a lesbian, if she were  a lesbian, and I 
was like, "Well, what a horrible thing to say. And even if she were, 
what difference would that make?" I was just rejecting their 
implied negativity to that. Yes.  
Raiskin:  Did you know any gay men in college?  
Goldstein:  Not, no. I don't think I did. My mother's hairdresser, I think, was a 
gay man. And on TV, the ice skaters, we would know were gay 
men. I don't think I saw any images or knew of any out lesbians. 
There was maybe the— back to high school, Miss Erickson, she 
was a nationwide women's hockey player, and it was like, "Hmm, 
Miss Erikcson. And what about Miss Wilson?"  Kind of like that, 
but it wasn't negative. It was just rumor, but we liked them so 
much, and everyone did. They weren't the source of any negative 
feelings that I was aware of or attitudes. I think eventually Miss 
Wilson did marry a man, but I'm not sure about Miss Ericson.  
 I was pretty isolated from gay and lesbian communities. Of course, 
growing up in New York, it seems to me there was always 
Christopher Street. And this is, of course, before Stonewall, so 
there was always Christopher Street, and you'd go there. And you 
would see gay men being out, but I didn't know them.  
Raiskin:  Did you move back to New York after college?   
Goldstein:  Yes, the center of the universe.  And first, lived with a woman that 
I met at work the first week. We were fish out of water in this 
situation. And loved living in Manhattan. We lived on East 
Twenty-third  Street, between Second  and Third  Avenues, on the 
first floor apartment. With bars on  the windows and garbage cans 
outside. I had a bedroom about the  size of a closet, and I was on 
the air shaft. It was heaven.  
 And then, her boyfriend moved in. And then, they wanted the 
place themselves. It was her uncle's building, so I moved to 
another sweet scene with a friend from college. During that time, I 
became more and more politicized. It was impossible not to be. 
This is now '68, and of course— the assassination of JFK was my 
senior year in high school. And the assassinations of RFK and 
Martin Luther King were my senior year of college.  
 And the war was continuing at its horrible pace. It was impossible 
not to be involved in different ways. And then, I got a job at the 
City of New York, in the Department of Personnel, when John 
Lindsay was mayor, and met other like-minded, young 
professionals. We started watching anti-war films and other 
propaganda from the left. I don't know. And we formed a group, I 
was just remembering this last night, called “PEWARE,” Public 
Employees Against War, Repression,  and Exploitation. Which I 
still love the "war, repression, and exploitation" part, because it 
covers a lot.   
 And we'd march on Washington. We made flags. I was very 
involved in anti-war activities, connections with the Black 
Panthers in New York. We would  go to their events and rallies 
and meetings. I remember being frisked at the door for weapons, 
and it was a bit intimidating. It was very intimidating, actually. 
We marched with Puerto Ricans wanting independence, and 
connected with the Cuban revolution as best we could from 
Manhattan. People tried to go on this program called the 
Venceremos Brigade, to go and help the Cubans cut sugar cane in 
Cuba.  I never got there. And I do remember also going, at this 
time, with busloads of women, down to march against  the 
Pentagon. We all had shirts with the picture of— now  I'm not 
remembering her name. Madame— How embarrassing. Cut.  
Long:  It's okay.  
Goldstein:  I think she was Ho Chi Minh's wife, but she didn't take his name. 
I'm forgetting her name. And that was incredibly powerful, these 
women circling the area of the Pentagon. I felt very energized and 
proud and strong.  
Long:  Would you mind just going back to high school for a second? Did 
you— 
Goldstein:  Not at all.  
Long:  Okay. Nineteen sixty-two, so you were relatively young. Do you 
remember the Cuban Missile Crisis?   
Goldstein:  Yes, I do.  
Long:  Can you explain what people felt like during that?  
Goldstein:  I was scared. I remember, again, TV in the den with my parents. I 
was scared. I think I was scared about, in this  very romantic way, 
that, "Oh my God, my boy friends and—" Boy friends were going 
to have to go and fight there, and they'd be hurt and die.  
Long:  When Kennedy did this public announcement on TV about it, 
people were tense and afraid.  
Goldstein:  Yeah, yeah. When—staying with high school—I said that I don't 
remember going to any marches or protests with my parents, it 
would've really been with my father. But when Kennedy, when 
the president, Kennedy, was shot, he took— it was November. It 
was the day after my sister's seventh birthday or something like 
that. Or maybe she was even younger.  
 He asked my brother and I to go down to D.C. with him on the 
bus, and my brother got to bring a friend. I don't know why I 
didn't. That friend lives in Eugene. It's very funny, but for eight 
hours in the November snowing day, we stood on line, tried 
getting in to the Rotunda. All through the night, and we wound 
through a Black neighborhood that I remember mostly. People 
came out and gave us food and hot chocolate and sea  biscuits or 
something. It was pretty moving. Certainly, when I wrote my first 
essays in freshman English, "Tell me about a memorable thing you 
did." That was one of the subjects I wrote on.   
Long:  Thank you.  
Goldstein:  Yes, of course. Where was I? Manhattan, City of New York, 
PEWARE, all these public employees. I then met a man, who I 
eventually moved out here with. We may get into him more, but 
he's still family. He doesn't live in Eugene anymore. 
Raiskin:  Where did you meet him?  
Goldstein:  I met him through one  of these political movie nights or lunch 
hours. People then would go out for something to eat or a drink, 
and then have meetings. We were going to demonstrate and join 
with others, or create our own. And I was in consciousness raising 
groups with other women, who all identified as straight, but all of 
us also were getting curious about having a lesbian relationship. 
And also were  non-monog— smashing patriarchy was very 
motivating, and so questions and concepts, and how do you do 
that within a heterosexual relationship, definitely arose.  
Raiskin:  Do you remember what you were reading in those days?  
Goldstein:  Well, ultimately, I was reading Mao and Marx and Lenin. But in 
terms of literature— 
Raiskin:  Just as the world's opening up about feminism or the  possibility of 
lesbian relationships, where do you hear about that?  
Goldstein:  Simone de Beauvoir— I'm blanking. I had her there for a minute.   
Raiskin:  When you say that the women were getting curious in your circle, 
were you going to feminist talks or hearing about these ideas?  
Goldstein:  I don't remember going to big name feminist talks, but we must've 
been reading something, because we weren't just pulling it out of 
the air. It was sort of in the air, like the spores of all these 
movements. It was the air I was breathing, and ultimately, through 
PEWARE and other of these groups, very energized. It seems like 
we were always making posters for marches or coordinating with 
people about demonstrations. I felt positive about affecting 
change, and I also thought, this sounds ridiculous, that I would die 
in the revolution by the time I was forty, and it would be fine. It 
would be fine, and— 
Raiskin:  What did the revolution seem like to you? What was its goals?  
Goldstein:  Peace, equality, justice, smashing the patriarchy, sharing 
resources, a different whole paradigm from capitalism and 
patriarchal structures, nuclear families.  
Raiskin:  If you were to die in the revolution, who was the perceived enemy 
that you'd be fighting?  
Goldstein:  Well, the chauvinist pigs,  the banks, the military industrial 
complex, the anti-woman-and-child medical system, imperialism, 
colonialism. Put an -ism on it, I'm fighting for or against it. And I 
did become a Maoist during this time, and met and studied with a 
cadre of friends. We had a dream of going to China, but not as 
tourists.   
 Of course, at this time, the U.S. had no relations with China. We 
had dreams though still of going to China, not as tourists, but to 
help work in the fields with the Chinese people, and help them 
achieve their goals. We met with an author named William 
Hinton, who wrote a book called Fanshen, who lived in 
Pennsylvania. He encouraged us to work with the Canadian 
consulate, because Canada had relations with the Chinese.  
 And we did. We'd buy, whenever we could, things made in China 
that somehow appeared, I don't know, in Canada or, ultimately I 
think, in Chinatown in New York. And when the People's 
Republic of China's representatives were first arriving to the UN, 
we met them at the airport with red flags and  welcomed them to 
the U.S. Some people had sticky buns for them. I felt, I think, a bit 
more of a world citizen than I do now in Eugene, all these years 
I've lived here. A very long time, forty-six years.  
Raiskin:  How did you come to Eugene?  
Goldstein:  In my hippie van, in 1972. My partner Charles worked for another 
part of the city government from where I did. And he, by the way, 
knew lots of gay men, some of whom were friends of his and some 
were students of his. He and his brother outfitted this hunk of 
metal. We took off the first time in '71, in '71. It was the first time I 
ever was west of Chicago, and that was a really big deal for me.  
 Before we crossed into Wisconsin and across the Mississippi, I had 
to sit by the edge of the river and go, "Okay, I'm having a new,  
new adventure." And it really was. We traveled for three months 
around the United States. His father was then living in Texas, I 
believe this was— yeah, in Texas, because of his pulmonary health 
challenges, rather than in Cambridge, Mass, where Charles grew 
up. We stayed quite a long time there.  
 And just met amazing people on the way. It was the time where 
you'd go to the food co-op, and you'd see other people there. And 
they said, "Yeah, that's your rig? Come on. Stay here. Stay in our 
house." Or would point us in the right direction. It was very 
mellow, groovy, peace signs, and exciting. Exciting.  
 And it was definitely a road trip. We had very few— like we have 
to be at a certain place at a certain time, or what place that was. It 
was great. It was really great, and driving this van was great. 
Then, we had made commitments to this group that was trying to 
get to China, that we would all try for one more year, and if that 
wasn't going to work, then our commitments to the project, we'd 
be released from that.  
 We did stay for another year, and it didn't work with going to 
China. We wanted to leave New York City. We were living in 
Brooklyn then, and actually, I wrote down that we lived with 
another couple who were married, a het couple, but it was great 
that we weren't just going to set up our own little nuclear family, 
Charles and I. That was already a cooperative sense of being in 
relationships, even though it was definitely het and straight.   
Raiskin:  And why did you want to leave New York? The center of the 
universe?  
Goldstein:  Right. This was four years later. New York was going bankrupt at 
the time, and Times Square was very seedy, which wasn't 
necessarily bad. There wasn't, "Pick up your poop," laws on the 
books. It was dirty and stinky. We  wanted to be with some other 
Americans, not just with East Coast Americans. There was a little 
thought of New England, but that's where Charles was from, and I 
just didn't want to be walking over his family graves. I wanted a 
whole new life.  
 We wound up in Eugene because, the second trip— I'm talking so 
long about all this old stuff, but the second trip, we went with 
another couple who had a child, and we zigzagged north in 
U.S./southern Canada. In Vancouver B.C., the city of Vancouver, 
they met up with an old college friend who said, "Oh, we have to 
go over to Vancouver Island. You have to meet these wonderful 
people who just immigrated here from the U.S." 
 Those were the grooviest people, I think, I have since ever met in 
my life. They had lived in San Francisco and had been poets and 
artists, knew Ferlinghetti. He taught here something like political 
sociology or something, and taught about we were in Vietnam for 
the resources and that connection to war and imperialism. Which I 
just thought they were the  grooviest.   
 They suggested checking out Eugene, because the year before, 
when Charles and I traveled through Oregon, we didn't want to 
stop here. It was a college town. I was out of college three years at 
that point, and he maybe five, and checked out some communes in 
southern Oregon, but I thought they were so sexist. I guess there 
wasn't women's land, or I didn't know about it yet in '71. Anyhow, 
wound up in Eugene, and then felt like it wasn't home for a long, 
long, long time, but didn't know where to move. 
Raiskin:  What did it look like to you, when you came to Eugene?  
Goldstein:  Small town, rolled up its  sidewalks, I'd say 6:30, 6:00, 7:00. But 
there were lots of hippies and anti-war, and we knew that there 
had been demonstrations against the war at the U of O. That was 
good. It was getting cold, the winter was coming on, and we didn't 
want to live in the truck that much longer. It was in August— I 
don't know. It wasn't getting cold, but it was going to get cold. 
There was a hostel here, and we were able to keep our van outside 
of the hostel.  
Long:  Where was the hostel?  
Goldstein:  It was on Fourth  and Jefferson, I think, or Fourth  and— Yeah, 
Fourth  and Jefferson.  
Raiskin:  Might still be there.  
Goldstein:  I don't— 
Raiskin:  The building.   
Goldstein:  Well, there's a different building there. And then, there were 
signs— this one night, within the first three days we arrived here 
or something, there were posters on the lampposts and the utility 
posts about some friends having an anti-movie at their home on 
this particular night. I went, "No, no. We're going to go to the 
laundromat." And Charles was going, "No, let's check them out. 
Let's check them out." I met my first friends at Fourth  and Adams 
in Eugene, and some of those— one of those gals is still around.  
Raiskin:  Who's that?  
Goldstein:  Connie Newman. And of course then, "Stay here. Park in front of 
our place, and come in and use the bathroom." People kept their 
doors unlocked them. We did, except we parked at the wrong 
house and walked into this other house  in the morning to use the 
bathroom. The doors were open, and it was a very straight, 
conventional house. Instead of Fourth  and Adams, it was Fourth  
and Madison or I don't know what. And we just walked in to this 
other house, and then backed up.  
Long:  For clarification— 
Goldstein:  Yes. 
Long:  The house at Fourth  and Adams, was that a lesbian house yet?  
Goldstein:  No, no.  
Long:  It was just people who were hippies.   
Goldstein:  Yes, yes. There were men and women living there, yeah.  
Raiskin:  What was your entry into the lesbian community here? What was 
the transition that happened for you?  
Goldstein:  Well, of course I was in a consciousness raising group or some 
group of women. I don't remember what we called ourselves, if we 
had a name. And we all identified as straight then. But all of us 
were interested in being with women sexually. And years later, 
was like, "I know all of you felt the same way as I did. How come I 
came out and you didn't?" And I still don't know.  
Raiskin:  So they're still straight?  
Goldstein:  Well, some of them have moved away, but before they did, they 
still were straight. They expressed their dreams, sexual dreams 
about women, or having crushes on different women and stuff. 
There were things that, even when I was in elementary school 
though,  I did  feel— or junior high. Now I look back and I go, "Was 
that about budding lesbianism?"  I remember when my best friend 
Joan and I were developing breasts, and then there was going to 
be some dance or party, and we'd be dancing with boys. And what 
is it going to feel to them to have these little breasts if we dance 
close? She would stand behind me with her breasts on my back, 
and I'd do the same to see how it would feel.  
 Other things later in New York where— but it was always placed 
a male lens over. "What is that woman's body like? What does it 
feel to be her to a guy?" It was always this male lens. I didn't say,  
"Ooh, I wonder how she would feel to me." And in New York 
even, Charles and I talked with our various cadres about non-
monogamy and male sexism. 
 I remember— I don't want to get into all these details. It's 
sounding so boring, but Charles was dating another woman, too. 
And we said, "We're not going to be upset with each other. If 
there's any upset, it's him not being honest with both of us." And  
that seemed radical at the time.  
Raiskin:  How'd you know these other women were interested in women 
sexually, even if they didn't act on it?  
Goldstein:  In Eugene?  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Goldstein:  How did I know they were? Because they talked about it. Yeah, we 
all talked about it, and ultimately, some of us went down to the 
Riv Room. There's so many different pieces of my long coming out 
story, because it was years. I was probably further along, but flirt 
with the dykes, the lesbians there.  
Raiskin: And that wasn't scary to you?  
Goldstein:  No, it was fabulous.  
Raiskin:  Can you describe the Riviera Room from your perspective then?  
Goldstein:  They had booths, a big mural of the Riviera in the back, loud 
music. Kind of small dance floor at that time, and there were  
stories that I know are true about— there always had to be an 
equal number of men and women on the dance floor at all times, 
in case the police came and took for a raid. They would switch 
partners, and appear to be het partners.  
Long:  Were you ever there when there was a police raid?  
Goldstein:  Never, never. I think that it was a little behind that. Thursdays 
were, I think, women's nights, and you couldn't go there before 
9:30 at night. Which now, when I think about my aging process, 
that seems crazy.  
Raiskin:  And so what did the lesbians there look like to you?  
Goldstein:  Adorable and strong and free. They were women that I knew. 
Some I didn't, but they all were within a spectrum of lesbian 
expression that was comfortable to me and enticing.  
Raiskin:  How did you come out?  
Goldstein:  Well, I had this friend, who was one of the other women who lived 
with Connie Newman on Fourth  and Adams. And at some point— 
she was dating a man that lived in New York or something and— 
Excuse me. We told each other we loved each other, and not just as 
friends. It took us two years to—as ready I guess as we thought we 
were—it took us two years and a Halloween party at her house.  
Raiskin:  What do you think the brakes were?  
Goldstein:  The brakes?   
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Goldstein:  I think just— I don't know, apprehension. It's hard to picture it. I 
guess some kind of fear? Also, she was such a good friend, but I 
think just classic, "How do you start a relationship, let alone a 
sexual  relationship, for the first time with a woman?" And I think 
different times, different ones of us were a little more assertive and 
the other person wasn't ready. And then we were. And actually, it 
wasn't great. It wasn't great sex that night.  
Long:  What year was this?  
Goldstein:  I was trying to figure that out. I thought you might— looking at 
the chronology form. I'm not sure. I was twenty-seven  or twenty-
eight, but I didn't move here really until twenty-five. I mean, I was 
twenty-five, if I did my math right, so I think maybe I was twenty-
seven, maybe about to turn twenty-eight, because my birthday's a 
few months after Halloween. Yes, Halloween was a big deal for 
the women here, and we all had to be witchy and howl at the 
moon and have creative costumes.  
Long:  And was Charles gone at this point?  
Goldstein:  No, Charles was not. And he was aware. We were very open. 
Matter of fact, he was involved with a men's group and men, and 
one or two of them were gay. And there was a certain time he said, 
"I think it's getting real with this other guy." And I said, "If you 
come out before I do, I'm going to be so angry." And he did, but he 
now identifies as a straight man. He wound up marrying a  
woman, and was with her for over thirty  years. He's been with 
other women since. But I didn't.  
Raiskin:  What did it feel like when you came out?  
Goldstein:  It felt great, it felt great. It took me awhile. Barbara  and I, we didn't 
continue that very long. She wound up taking non-monogamy 
quickly to another level, and slept with a man who was an old 
friend of mine. And I thought— just within weeks after Barbara  
and I have this two year courtship, within weeks. Both of them, 
this was a man I knew in New York and lived with in a communal 
household , and so I just loved both of them. They  told me way 
after, and it was like, "I'm not doing this with you, Barbara." I'm 
friends with the man again.  
 And I don't know what kind of timeframe, but Nancy Burbank 
was teaching a woodworking class at LCC, and I was very 
interested in that, partly because Charles was a cabinet maker, and 
I just really loved it, so I wanted to learn more about it on my own, 
and not from him. And I took the class. There was a woman  in it 
who was already out who I crushed out on enormously. And we 
eventually became sweethearts. It was great, it was great.  
Raiskin:  Did you live together?  
Goldstein:  We didn't.  
Raiskin:  No?  
Goldstein:  We didn't, but she and Charles became very tight, because she was 
also into the building trades and building arts, so she, years later, 
became an architect. Moved to Portland and became an architect. 
They would do work projects together, and she'd be at the house a 
lot. She lived with a lot of women in the house next to the original 
Women's Center, which never really happened. On Jefferson also, 
and Third  or something.  
Raiskin:  When you were involved with her, you were still living with 
Charles?  
Goldstein:  Yeah, yeah. And then, a woman intervened and suggested, 
advised Kacey, "You should tell Judy to stop sleeping with 
Charles." And that woman is now married to a man, but she did, 
and I said, "Fine. I just wish I— needed another five minutes to do 
it on my own." And no regrets on that. And he was still seeing this 
fella who— 
 And Kacey was definitely into non-monogamy, especially when 
she got a crush on this straight woman, who she thought maybe 
she could lure. And another woman decided she was interested in 
dating me, and it's like, "Kacey, I'm going to go with it." It was 
non-monogamous. And, but— 
Raiskin:  And where were you working?  
Goldstein:  I think I was working at this place in West Eugene called Western 
Graphics, and they made flock posters that you color in, and they 
also were one of the people that were licensed to print the Farrah  
Fawcett poster. I worked in their art department, assistant to the 
two artists, one of whom was a gay man friend of Charles', who 
eventually moved to Seattle, and then San Francisco, and died of 
AIDS. Fabulous, creative person.  
 And then, I guess I got a job— well, there was also the Growers 
Market, and everything was done collectively. Charles and I lived 
with a household of other men and women and a baby, and it 
seems like  our lives were very much in groups. There was an 
effort to do a— I had gotten some carpentry skills and 
woodworking skills, and there was an attempt to develop a 
builders' co-op. And I did some roofing. I built big staircases, with 
women.  
Long:  Did you know about Crescent Construction?  
Goldstein:  It wasn't around yet. It wasn't around yet. And so then, from this 
Western Graphics place, I then worked at Jackrabbit Press, which 
you've heard about, and which— 
Long:  Can you tell us about it from your perspective? 
Goldstein:  Well, it was a political press. There was one man involved initially, 
but he more-or-less gracefully backed out, I think with some 
pushing, some nudging. And it was run by women. We printed 
everything from menus at Wild Iris and business cards, to political 
literature and women's programs, information about women's 
programs, and Grand Jury comics, and was involved at some  
times— We couldn't print Women's Press, but we were involved 
with them.  
 We were on the second floor of the Growers Market, and there 
was another collective called Amazon Reality, which was— it 
wasn't a book store, but it was a place you can order political 
books, feminist books, or banners and buttons and decals. Laurie 
McClain and Maryanne Gould  owned that.  
 It was so exciting at Jackrabbit Press, because you never knew who 
was going to come in and ask to have their poetry or their didactic 
printed. We printed labels for Genesis Juice then, which was a big 
deal— four color separations, and Kate ran it. And Jane Gibbons, 
also. And then was her co-pilot.  
Raiskin:  How long did you work there?  
Goldstein:  I don't know. I'm going to say no more than two years.  
Raiskin:  Can we— I want to fast-forward a little bit to when the lesbian 
community was up and thriving. Can you describe what that 
scene was like, and where you were working, what you were 
doing, and what years we're talking about?  
Goldstein:  It's hard for me with the years, because I've just lived here so long, 
and I mostly lived in the same house in West Eugene for so long. 
Well, I do remember when I started at Starflower, which is 
February of 1979. So long ago.  
Raiskin:  Was that near the beginning of it?   
Goldstein:  Starflower started, and I have some information about this, in '82. 
No, '72, excuse me. '72-‘73, incorporated.  
Raiskin:  So it was up and running?  
Goldstein:  Yes it was, and when it first came to town, there were two married 
couples, straight couples, who were the owners, and it was like, 
"This is just too straight coupled for me." And of course, I didn't 
have the foresight of what it was going to become. The lesbian 
community, as far as I was concerned, ran the town. I mean, we 
had lesbian— I don't know. Lesbian restaurants and doctors and 
Jackrabbit Press and Starflower. And bands, zillions of bands, 
none of which I was in, but all of which I danced to.  
 And I think  I shared with you once the story that during working 
hours— at this point, I worked at Starflower and bicycled to work, 
and then after work, I'd bicycle to the kwoon, the Kung Fu school, 
and work out for a couple of hours with my sisters and the 
children. And go home, take a shower, and then go to the bar and 
dance until, I don't know when, very late, since you couldn't go 
there before 9:30.  
 It was perfect. It was heaven, being with like-minded people, 
being with strong women trying to be stronger, being active 
physically and politically. I felt pretty powerful, even as we were 
trying to still smash the powers-that-be. I thought we were 
affecting change.   
Long:  Can you tell us a little bit about some of the other women in the 
community that had an impression on you  that you remember 
from those old days?  
Goldstein:  Wow. Well, the lesbian that I crushed out on at LCC, her name 
was— is it okay to share these people's names? They haven't given 
permission.  
Raiskin:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. 
Goldstein:  Her name is Kacey Jurgens, and as I said, she used to live— she 
has lived in Portland for a long time. Margaret Cormier, one of the 
founders of Starflower, Kate Jackrabbit, Kate Thompson. Oh, I 
guess our Kung Fu teachers, whose names I don't think have been 
really shared that much, Barbara Bones and Joyce Towne. In terms 
of political— I was in a political study group with Shoshana 
Cohen.  There are certain parts of the community— I didn't feel 
antagonistic particularly, but there's certain of us who are maybe 
more into traditional politics in terms of Marxism and Leninism, if 
that's traditional, as opposed to perhaps moon witch— 
Long:  Spirituality.  
Goldstein:  That, that piece of spirituality, but I always felt you have to 
combine a political leader that doesn't have a sense of spirituality, 
and for me, I think a spiritual leader that doesn't have a sense of 
the material world and the needs of human beings— I don't think 
they're  in the right direction. Where are we on time?   
Raiskin:  Starflower, you were going to tell us about, when you're looking 
through your records, about the nuts and bolts of things.  
Goldstein:  Well, I did find this personnel policy manual. I read the whole 
thing yesterday, and as I told you, I got a little depressed, because 
it was so bureaucratic, and— 
Raiskin:  Your memory of it was more free-flowing than this.  
Goldstein:  Yes, and I joined, as I said, in the beginning of '79, and it had been 
going about five years, four or five years then. I don't know if 
you've heard yet, but you will when you interview Jain Elliott, 
who was one of the people that moved up from San Francisco. The 
folks that started it all moved up from San Francisco. She can tell 
you stories about that. At one point apparently, there was an 
envelope on the wall with money in it, and you took what you 
needed. That was how people got paid. You were expected, if you 
had children, you would take more, and that was totally expected 
and supported.  
 So I don't know, it got different, and a lot of this was  developed in 
the last two years of Starflower. And so I think there was a 
different need at that time. There were other policies and 
procedures, and there were different changes in the structure of 
the business, from collective to cooperative, which has an actual 
tax code related to it. I wasn't there— I would substitute and label 
herbs or cheeses, but I really wasn't there in those wild, loose days.  
Long:  Can you remind us the years that Starflower operated?   
Goldstein:  Well, and I'll check here. I'll say ‘72 to ‘73, and it ended in 
December of '86. A lot of the women that worked there, over those 
years, didn't know each other, because there were shifts, and 
people went off to college, just like in a family. People that were 
there the early five years, I'd say, it was really different folks. Very 
few were there the whole time, if anyone, other than maybe Jain. 
She might've left a year before it fully closed.  
Raiskin:  It seems like there were a lot of experiments in different kinds of 
work and pay that either  worked or didn't work over time, and 
then Starflower kept developing in how it functioned.  
Goldstein:  Yes, and for a very, very, very long time, most of those years after 
the “envelope days,” which I guess someone realized they had to 
do timesheets, by state law or something, everyone got paid the 
same. And then ultimately, there was something like fifteen  cents 
or twenty-five cents or fifty cents per hour differential, if you did 
certain jobs. And then also, if you were a mother or a father, 
though I don't think we had any men who were raising children at 
that time. They might've been donors, but they didn't raise the 
children.  
Long:  Can you tell us about the founders, the Glasses?  
Goldstein:  The Glasses and the Cormiers, yes.  
Long:  And the Cormiers. Can you tell us about them?   
Goldstein:  Tom Cormier and Margaret Cormier were married, as were 
Charlie Glass and Debbie Glass, and I came to know the Cormiers 
better. I think every one of that group, other than Charlie, 
eventually came out. Tom, for sure, Margaret, for sure, and 
Debbie. They were smart. Charlie wasn't around when I started 
Starflower, was barely around. Debbie was barely around. She 
was there a bit. I don't know. Everyone was smart and kind and, I 
guess, visionary.  
Long:  And can you please describe what Starflower did?  
Goldstein:  Well, we were a natural foods distribution company, that served 
smaller businesses, restaurants, food-buying clubs, bakeries, 
natural food stores, all in the Northwest and to California, and 
then we also trucked items to  Seattle to be shipped to Alaska, and 
items to San Francisco to be shipped to Hawaii. And there were 
other natural foods co-ops, that we had gentlewoman's 
agreements with. "This is our territory, and that's yours."  
 There's one that I think is still going,  Mountain Peoples out of 
Colorado, and there was another one in Seattle. We didn't sell in 
Washington. We just trucked our products to Seattle to go to 
Alaska, because the cooperative natural foods business in Seattle, 
it was their territory. And we had herbs also and spices.  
 And through the work of, I understand, not just Margaret 
Cormier, but maybe predominantly Debbie Glass, a cheesemaker 
in Southern Oregon was willing to try this rennetless cheese that  
those two women were really wanting to produce, so  that people 
who are then vegetarians but not vegans, I don't think we knew 
about veganism then, could eat cheese that wasn't made with the 
lining of a cow's stomach, which is what rennet is.  
 And I was going to— there’s  a bit of a history of Starflower in  this 
manual, which I think you'll find interesting. And I have another 
synopsis of the history, or another history that's a couple of pages 
long also, that I wasn't able to locate, that wasn't in here. I will 
locate it eventually, but I do have a mission statement from April 
of 1983. Should I?  
Long:  Yes. 
Raiskin:  Yes. 
Goldstein:  It's not too long. "Mission Statement: To succeed as a feminist 
cooperative business, supplying natural foods and related 
products primarily to the Northwest. Goals: One, to increase 
profitability by responding to market trends and shifts. Two, to 
increase profitability by increasing productivity of our workers. 
Three, to provide humane working conditions. Four, to provide 
worker control of the workplace. Five, to make a positive impact 
on society by promoting people, taking power over our lives 
through, A, what we eat, B, where we work, C, how we affect the 
Earth ecosystems, D, humane business practices among customer, 
worker, and supplier."  
Long:  Thank you.   
Goldstein:  And then in here also, we did write about cooperative principles, 
which are, "Co-ops operate according to six principles, the so-
called Rochdale principles, named for the twenty-eight  weavers in 
Rochdale, England who, in 1844, opened the first modern 
consumers cooperative." And I don't have to read all of these six 
points of the principles of cooperation, but openness, economic— I 
can just read the part: "Open membership, economic democracy, 
limited return on invested capital." It would go to the co-op. "A 
patronage rebate, education, and cooperation among co-ops."  
 I don't know, at a certain point I think, for a lot of women over the 
years, that became less emphasized, and more the empowerment 
of women primarily doing these non-traditional jobs.  
Long:  We've talked to a number of different women about Starflower, 
and their experiences working at Starflower, and my impression 
now is that Starflower had a major influence in distribution of 
organic food and the organic food movement. Can you talk a little 
bit about that?  
Goldstein:  Well, I think one of the reasons— there  were many, and I don't 
know if I really want to talk about them all, but one of the reasons 
that it eventually had to go out of business was, we'd succeeded in 
the mission of bringing natural foods, bulk foods, organic foods to 
the people. And, "Oh, what do you know? Fred Meyer's and 
Safeway is now having bulk oatmeal and rice, and maybe some 
brown rice, and other healthier alternatives." Everything wasn't 
packaged.   
 And Bi-Mart— No, WareMart, which was around  the corner from 
us, was doing the same. It was like, "Wow, they're competing, but 
it's wonderful." I think that goal was one of the most successful, 
and we achieved that more successfully maybe than some of the 
others. And we had the Starflower label on our cheese. That was a 
big job, to label all these packaged cheese. Sometimes we had to 
cut them, but we had to label them all. That was a way we could 
hire or work with temporary employees, and it was a foot in the 
door for a lot of folks to come into Starflower.  
 I was going to share this one memory that I have. I was on the 
warehouse team, where we unloaded trucks of fifty pound bags 
and cartons of four gallon juices or eight gallon juices. I don't 
know how— I couldn't do it now, but I was young and strong. 
And then we also loaded the trucks with the orders from the 
different customers, but this one particular— I would go on 
different trucking runs with the drivers and help with the 
deliveries.  
 But this one particular time, I was on a trucking run, I believe, 
with Gail Pyburn, who was a contract Starflower driver, and Kate 
Elliott, who's deceased, who was a Starflower member, as was I. 
And we're riding down I-5. I guess I'm in the middle, in the front, 
in this huge 18-wheeler, filled with natural foods. We're hauling 
this down to San Francisco, and I'm just looking, and I'm going, 
"This is so not my script." I just felt like we were so powerful.  
Growing up in the suburbs of New York to my family. This wasn't 
going to be part of my story, and it was.  
 And then, I remember also that same trip, after we did whatever 
work we needed to do for that day. I guess, delivered all of the 
Nancy's Yogurt to the dock and picked up whatever we have. We, 
of course, were going to go to a bar, a lesbian bar, and on the way 
there, we were hassled by some guys. And I don't know, I brought 
my Kung Fu with me. I didn't have to fight them, but I got to 
confront them.  
 Of course, you don't want a fight. You want to avoid that. I don't 
know exactly what I did, but whatever I said and  did, it totally 
worked. And later, I remember particularly Kate was going— who 
I knew longer, she was like, "Thank you. Thank you. You were so 
strong, amazon." But there was another time in Eugene, where I 
felt like I needed to protect my girlfriend and I, and again, without 
fists but still using my martial arts. That was great.  
 And so, I started Kung Fu the week after my thirtieth  birthday, so 
that would've been December, the last weeks of December, of '76. I 
wasn't at Starflower yet, and that also really is off script. Working 
out like that, I think the only other work— I took ballet dances or 
dance classes, and PE for women, before Title IX, and it was pretty 
awful, even with Miss Erickson and Miss Wilson. And maybe 
some swimming, but nothing like martial arts, nothing like that.   
 And working out so hard, and really learning how to sweat and 
not hold back and just glisten. It was totally empowering. It was 
getting— 
Long:  Could you tell us what the focus of Amazon Kung Fu was then?  
Goldstein:  Well, I happen to have another document. May I read from it?  
Long:  Yes. 
Goldstein:  This is “Commitment to Social Change,” from a document called 
“Welcome to Amazon Kung Fu, Sisters.” That's at the top of the 
sheet. It says, "Amazon Kung Fu participates in a number of ways 
to changing society and fighting oppression. We recognize that 
women and children are oppressed in this society, and we train 
them to defend themselves. We also do demonstrations and 
workshops, and have provided security for demonstrations and 
events." Did Linda Mac share the same thing?  
Long:  Uh-uh [negative]. 
Goldstein:  Okay, Linda Mac. "Our principles of unity and bylaws will be 
available in written form soon. We have been working on them for 
a long time, and they represent our commitment to refining our 
understanding of our place in the various movements for change. 
We recognize that martial arts have the potential for misuse, and 
we dedicate our skills and training to ending, not perpetuating, 
oppression."  
Long:  And where was it located?   
Goldstein:  Well, we moved around a lot. We worked out of Gerlinger when I 
first started, on campus. It was a beautiful space, but I don't know. 
Maybe we didn't have enough access to it enough times. I think 
that was an issue. And then, we'd find these weird spaces and— 
probably Crescent Construction women put in a wood floor for us 
and hung mirrors. We moved around, mostly in the west part, 
West Eugene, Whiteaker neighborhood.  
 And I remember when this one woman, Kitty Reilly, who's head 
you can see here, who went by Crow then. No, she went by Raven. 
Her girlfriend was Crow. She said something about— at a certain 
point, after training for whatever period of time, she said, "You're 
a martial artist now, Judy." I was like, "What?" It was— I thought 
she was wrong.  I wasn't there yet. And I studied for about seven 
years, seven and a half years, until the demands of my straight job 
became too demanding, and I couldn't keep working out as much.  
 It slowly tapered until this day, when I don't ever work out, but it 
was great. It was great. I became very strong. It really helps with 
focus; discipline in its most positive actuality or reflection. I loved 
the connection, the world, international connection, and the 
connection to China and the Asian roots, which were definitely 
always do all your teachers back, and then you always knew what 
lineage we were.  
 I loved that, and became a teacher there for the beginning students 
and for some of the youth and children. That was very challenging 
in a different way, and I remember specifically at this one class,  
where I'm going— this is with the women, "You're all choosing to 
be here. If you don't want to be here, leave and let the rest of us do 
our class." I was— I don't know that strict was the word, but I just 
felt like, if you were there and you were adults, and no one was 
forcing you there, your parents or the state, you needed to focus.  
 It was challenging, and I also did tai chi and taught tai chi for a 
little bit. And I'm supposed to mention, I spoke with a dear friend 
yesterday. We also interacted with all of these other women's 
martial arts schools, including one in Portland that did karate, and 
my friend Chops said— You have to get her name in here at one 
point. She lived here for a year or two in the '70s, but I didn't know  
her then. We've remained friends.  
Raiskin:  What's her name?  
Goldstein:  Chops.  
Raiskin:  Oh Chops.  
Goldstein:  All these years, even though she's lived as far away as Chicago in 
these decades, but she was in a martial arts school, and we knew a 
lot of the same people. We eventually met each other and stayed 
friends, so Chops, I got you in.  
Raiskin:  You know, Judy, when we started this project, we couldn't have 
started it without you, because you knew so many people and 
have kept in touch with so many people. And so we have thought 
of you as a hub of this network of people. I'm wondering how that  
felt, or how you met so many people and how you stayed 
connected.  
Goldstein:  Well, it's felt a tremendous honor to be assisting— I say it like, 
"Oh, I'll bring the paper plates to the whatever, a meeting." That's 
how I've assisted. I'm so grateful for the work that both of you 
have done on this, and your vision of this project, so I feel honored 
to be the smallest bit helping you both, and hope I can continue, 
although I don't know what Linda's up to. She didn't take me up 
on my offer to volunteer as— 
Long:  Not yet.  
Goldstein:  Not yet.  
Long:  Not yet.  
Goldstein:  And I feel that I didn't adequately do my job and take on— I didn't 
do everything I said I would do. In terms of staying in touch with 
all these people, I think the electronic age has helped a lot, of 
course, for all of us, but I've lived here for so long and lived in one 
house for so long, that people knew how to connect with me, 
maybe. And there are a few other gals who've been here through it 
all. I'm thinking of Susan Detroy particularly, but I don't know. I'm 
a Sag. I like connecting with people. It's been a joy, reconnecting 
now and the party last Saturday, on Julee's birthday, was 
wonderful. It feels so special, being a part of this project, and the 
validation for more of our efforts and just our way of living back 
in the day.   
 Maybe I shared with you, Julee, or both of you, about how there 
was some talk, at one point, at Starflower, that Ms. magazine was 
interested in doing a little blurb about us. And it was like, "No 
way, Gloria Steinem works for the CIA or FBI," or something 
crazy. We were very— I think we were brave in many ways, but 
afraid also of what the FBI would do with us, or the government 
hurting  us. So the idea of now documenting and trying to find the 
women, the stories, the notes and pictures. I wish I paid more 
attention to those things at the time. I was afraid, I think.  
Raiskin:  It's interesting, what you say about fear, and so many people 
coming together and working towards something, but also coming 
with a certain amount of individual trauma. 
Goldstein:  Absolutely.  
Raiskin:  That affected maybe the relationships and the organizations that 
you were building and rebuilding them. I don't know if you have 
any reflections on that.  
Goldstein:  Well, I think that's very insightful and true, that particularly in the 
group of Starflower, where at some point, with temp workers— I 
don't know if we got over 100, but we got over eighty, so there 
was lots of opportunity for individual drama to raise its head. And 
also, we were mostly women in our twenties  and thirties, we 
weren't that mature. Some more than others, and didn't— we 
tried, I think that's part of this book, to contain all the energy and  
all the reactions and all the responses to whatever, that this 
procedures manual is very bureaucratic.  
 But again, most of it was in the last few years of the— but I think it 
was in part because people brought so much of their lives with 
them, and because it was feminist, and we were all supposed to be 
respected for who we were, we didn't know how to funnel who 
we were appropriately in the workplace at all times. People kicked 
down walls, chased after people with forklifts.  
 Mostly, this was around not about policy  stuff, sometimes, but 
more about relationships and who was dating whom. But there 
was policy-related frustration and anger and discourse, too. But, 
for me, it was still— I look back on it fondly, absolutely. I was 
injured as a warehouser and had to become  an office worker, but I 
still had very strong, determined feeling that I was contributing to 
the betterment of our community and beyond.  
Raiskin:  You've been here a long time to see people grow up, and I have 
their visions expressed in other ways. At one point, you said you 
felt like Eugene was run by the lesbians.  
Goldstein:  Yeah.  
Raiskin:  Could you reflect a little bit on, as you all were older, and the 
connections that remained, and your place in lesbian community 
in your forties, fifties, and sixties?   
Goldstein:  Well, I'm not sure of the demise of the whole cooperative business 
world of Eugene, but slowly over the period of time, we were 
forced to look for straight jobs. I went back to a serious career in 
human resources, back to my New York roots, even  though I did 
also wind up, prior to that at Starflower, doing personnel 
administration after my warehouse injuries.  
 And a lot of gals went back to school to further their education, 
either in a field that they had already studied or something brand 
new. Jain Elliott, for example, became a teacher in Oakridge for 
many, many, many years. Some stayed in the political sphere. 
Sally Sheklow, in terms of working at Willamette AIDS Council. 
And also, the organizations, such as Womenspace, became more— 
I don't know. Traditional isn't right.  
Raiskin:  Established?  
Goldstein:  Established, I guess. Yeah. Some of these other programs and 
activities, they started more loosely. You have to have some 
structure also to continue forward. And then there were certain 
other businesses that were never cooperatives, but they're still 
around, that Starflower was a part of. I don't know. This is not 
really addressing you, but Nancy's Yogurt, of course, is a family 
business. And Down To Earth has co-owners, but we all worked 
together. 
 But Zoo Zoo's is gone, this cooperative restaurant, and Country 
VW is gone. Burley Design is not a cooperative anymore, which  
did bicycle trailers and bicycles. And 4,000 other— Amazon Kung 
Fu is gone. There are plenty of martial arts schools, and many  that 
have women teachers. Or some, I think, that have women teachers, 
but not the same.  
 But it was hard for me. I, at one point, worked for the City of 
Springfield when, I don't know if it was Measure 9, was up on the 
ballot or some other hateful ballot measure. I think there were 
fewer Jews in the City of Springfield than there were people who I 
knew who are gay. And I wasn't out in Springfield. Different of 
my friends, I told, co-workers, but I wasn't out. It was very hard. 
And I had, cleverly though, planned to take the day after the 
election off anyhow. I went, "One way or another, I don't want to 
be here." Sadly, the measure passed, so it was very— 
Raiskin:  There was a city ordinance.  
Long:  Or Measure 8.  
Goldstein:  Oh, Measure 8. Yeah, the Oregon Citizens Alliance and the city 
ordinance. I'm reminded by Judy Boles that the City of Eugene 
officially had anti-gay language in their charter longer that 
Springfield did. I don't know, and then, as I mentioned, Susan 
Detroy, she organized, more recently, in terms of connecting in 
different ways, a group called Lez Dance, and we hired ballroom 
dance teachers to teach us all how to do the two-step or the samba 
or the foxtrot.   
 We had to teach the teachers, "No, it wasn't male and female. It 
was lead and follow."  And they got with the program. But it was 
good for them, because in Eugene, even with straight couples, they 
don't always have the same roles.  
Raiskin:  I wanted to ask you where we are now as a community, this 
particular community, aging. Do you have thoughts about either 
how people are negotiating medical worlds or retirement, or 
issues like that that the community's facing now?  
Goldstein:  Mm-hmm [affirmative]. Well, many of us are on Medicare, which 
is a gift in many ways. And, of course, isn't covered. The medical 
situation in this country's terrible, and it doesn't get easier. Doctors 
don't take Medicare, and if your doctor retires, because she or he is 
older, you might have a hard time finding a doctor that will take 
Medicare. Personally, for me, I've mostly had doctors that were 
fine with me being a  le— I didn't feel traumatized by the doctors, 
because I'm a lesbian.  
 And I went to women doctors mostly, some of whom were 
lesbians. I have to say, I guess I should mention— I don't know. 
Linda's looking at her watch, but I've had breast cancer on two 
different occasions. First in '95, and then again in 2012, and my 
oncologist, Dr. Benjamin Cho, couldn't have been more supportive 
of me and all my lesbo friends, and my other women friends.  
 Thank goodness for that. Thank goodness for that. He was 
recommended to me by a naturopath, a woman naturopath in  
town, and I guess I wouldn't known right away if it wasn't going 
to work, but she made a good recommendation. He helps me to 
this day, and welcomes all my friends. Because I'm single, I was 
single at the time of my cancer in 2012, it wasn't like the one main 
gal that came with me to different appointments or to chemo 
treatments.  
 And he was just going, "I'm amazed, and your friends are so 
wonderful." He and the other staff were very welcoming, and that 
was a very, very positive experience for me. I know for other 
lesbians, it's been harder interacting with medical staff. I've been 
blessed in that way.  
 In terms of aging and community, I think issues of poverty are still 
pronounced for women, and it's scary for many of us about, "Oh, 
are we going to have enough money for our lives?" As it is, I think, 
for a lot of people, but of course, women get paid less than men.  
Raiskin:  And lesbians weren't married to men often.  
Goldstein:  Right, so there's the social security benefits, the spouse benefits. 
That's, for us, a new thing that, hopefully younger lesbians or 
women who were able to marry in the beginning of marriage 
equality, will have those opportunities. And also, many 
businesses, at different times, didn't cover your same-sex spouse. 
That was great that I lived through that in my human resources 
career, to see that change. And then, of course, we were taxed to 
have our partners on the plan, even when we were allowed to  
have them on the health insurance, in a way that heterosexual 
couples weren't taxed, unless they weren't married. But of course, 
we couldn't— 
Raiskin:  All the cumulative inequities, by the time you get to older age, add 
up. 
Goldstein:  Absolutely, absolutely.  
Raiskin:  And contribute to poverty.  
Goldstein:  And working at Starflower, when I look at my social security 
statements— I don't know if you gals get them yet, but I don't 
know. It was a long time ago, but we really— I'm sure we paid 
minimum wage, but not too much above that.  
Raiskin:  What are your thoughts about that you  retired fairly recently 
really, and your thoughts about retirement, about living situation, 
and staying in Eugene or not? 
Goldstein:  Well, my retirement was different, because of the age I was when I 
got cancer. I was pushed out the door by my employer, but after 
the trauma of that all subsided, and I became healthier and my 
treatments for cancer stopped, I'm very happy not working. I was 
in a— I'll say toxic environment, two times in particular in my HR 
career. And actually, after both or— I don't know— there was 
some link with how I responded to those toxic situations, my 
immune system and cancer.   
 That's not a direct, dark, clear line, but it's some line. Anyhow, I 
feel much happier with who I am than I did when I was working, 
because no one's telling me that, "You're inadequate and were too 
pushy or—" other negative things, on a regular basis.  
 In terms of living situations, it is interesting to me that my first 
years as an adult, living with women friends and living with male 
friends in households of people, has evaporated, and I've lived by 
myself for a really long time. And it would be wonderful if there 
was an opportunity to change that and have a community, 
residential community of some kind, with others.  
 I'm not sure if— on the one hand, all lesbian sounds great. I'm not 
sure if I need that. I think Enid expressed maybe a priority for her 
was to be among other Jews, and that would be important to me as 
well, because I don't want to be subsumed in the dominant culture 
in that way either.  
 I'm excited about meeting with Jean Tate. There's different friends 
in town, some of whom you've interviewed, that we've talked over 
the years. "Oh, buy that property. Oh, you did, and we'll make a 
compound of some kind," but that particular thing isn't 
happening. Eugene isn't— we don't have cooperative housing in 
Eugene, of any kind. It's always stumbled and evaporated, though 
I think the people out at River Road— 
Raiskin:  River Road?   
Goldstein:  Yeah. I forget the name of what they call their project. I think 
they're able to move forward again, but they've been horribly 
challenged by people. I'm open. I think about inviting people into 
my home on a more regular— to live with me, but I'm not sure. 
The way my house is laid out, whatever. I make excuses. It's 
exciting, and I thank you for following up with Jean about that, 
who actually— Jean and Wayne Tate, were the first, to come full 
circle, were people that are— the groovy people we met on 
Vancouver Island said, "Here are Jean and Wayne Tate. Definitely 
connect with them right way." Which we did.  
 They're wonderful. They know a lot of people. They're non-
traditional, because Wayne had quit his teaching job, and he was 
the house husband. And Jean was doing her real estate career. This 
was before she had her own business. We painted houses. I still 
look at a house on University that we painted the inside of. And 
then, Charles worked with Wayne on different building things. 
Jean and I have been on panels together, although apparently, I 
don't know where I was in my path to being an out lesbian, but— 
it will be great to reconnect with her. We were at their daughter's 
wedding. I haven't stayed in touch with her.  
 I think there is a lot of energy that you two have stirred up in the 
most positive way, for at least taking steps and learning more 
about what could  be possible. So, as  I think, mentioned earlier, 
Eugene didn't feel like home for a really long time. And I don't 
know, then I got used to it. I would consider moving somewhere  
else, but I couldn't just, by myself, go to Taos or something. That 
doesn't sound appealing if— I don't know. Maybe I could, but I 
don't have that initiative right now.  
Raiskin:  You know a lot of people here.  
Goldstein:  Yeah, I do, who I trust.  
Raiskin:  Which is very lucky for us.  
Goldstein:  Oh yeah? Yeah.  
Raiskin:  We've been asking people who have gone through this very 
vibrant time, things have changed. And maybe there's other kinds 
of revolutionary things that are happening, but for a young 
person, listening to these stories, and you looking back on your life 
and creative work you did, is there something you might tell a 
young person or some advice you would give about living or 
community or something?  
Goldstein:  Well, I think I would say, make every effort. Make efforts, as much 
as you possibly can, to find like-minded people, to talk about your 
dreams and what you want in your own life, and how that ripples 
through. And try not to be isolated and cynical. Be strong and— I 
think connecting with others, and continue learning and 
challenging things maybe you were raised to believe, or the 
dominant culture professes and sells you.  
 It's amazing to me, when the marriage equality movement started 
really gearing up, I was cynical. I didn't think we were ready yet,  
and so wrong. So wrong. I just thought, It's too soon. Society's just 
getting use to lesbians and gay men.  And I was, thankfully, really 
wrong. It's amazing the changes in a life, and it's been so great, 
with this project and connecting with different women, and 
hearing from them, some things they shared or remembered, or 
things that I didn't know about them, and just how much  change 
there's been for women. Of course, tons more to go, to say the 
least, but it's different. My mother used to get mail, "Mrs. David 
Goldstein." And she would not like it, but she didn't have a first 
name. And, of course— 
Raiskin:  Or a last name.  
Goldstein:  Or a last name, right. Also, I don't think every old person— I 
would tell a young person every old person isn't their enemy, and 
maybe there's certain areas— there are areas where you'll have to 
push us to understand what your goals are and where you're 
coming from, but don't write us all off. Although, I definitely 
understand the saying, "Don't trust anyone over thirty." I still do.  
Raiskin:  Is there anything we haven't covered that you want to make sure 
you say something about?  
Goldstein:  Let me see. Oh, I didn't talk about Baleboostehs. I don't know. 
Baleboostehs  was a group of Jewish lesbians who started meeting 
in the '80s, when we didn't feel especially welcome at the Temple 
here in Eugene. And didn't feel comfortable with only going out 
on the full moon and dancing in the full moon, in women's circles  
or— I don't know what. Women-centered spirituality or that kind 
of women's— I don't know.  
Raiskin:  You didn't feel part of that?  
Goldstein:  This group, we didn't feel like that was our only spiritual— that 
would satisfy our spiritual needs, so we formed this group that 
met once a month, and  very loose. Potlucks, but we tried for a 
while  to have topics that we would discuss, or someone could do a 
ritual if they wanted. And then we learned, "Okay, we need to 
remind people that it needs to be a beginning, middle, and end." 
We had to go through all that. And that was very affirming also 
and validating, in a similar but different way than this project is.  
 Ultimately, I think both the synagogue became truly more 
welcoming and our perception of that, of how welcome we were 
as lesbians in the Jewish  community, also changed. And now, a lot 
of lesbians are very, very involved in high places, and have been 
for decades, at the Temple. Yay. And Balaboosteh, just for those of 
you who don't know, is a Yiddish term, and maybe you can help 
me, Julee, that has  two meanings, I think.  
 One is a strong, very accomplished homemaker like, "Oh my gosh, 
she makes the best pot roast," or, "Her home is so beautiful," or, 
"Her children are always well kept and well dressed." And it also 
means a ball-breaker, so we put them together, and we reclaimed 
it, just like we've reclaimed other words. Yeah, yippee for all these 
brave women and creative women and brave— and brave.   
Raiskin:  Thank you so much.  
Long:  Thank you.  
Goldstein:  Thank you so much.  
 
[END OF INTERVIEW]  